1
2
0
2

g
u
A
7

]

C
H
.
s
c
[

1
v
3
5
3
3
0
.
8
0
1
2
:
v
i
X
r
a

Screen2Words: Automatic Mobile UI Summarization with
Multimodal Learning

Bryan Wang∗
University of Toronto
Toronto, ON, Canada
bryanw@dgp.toronto.edu

Zhourong Chen
Google Research
Mountain View, CA, USA
zrchen@google.com

Gang Li
Google Research
Mountain View, CA, USA
leebird@google.com

Tovi Grossman
University of Toronto
Toronto, ON, Canada
tovi@dgp.toronto.edu

Xin Zhou
Google Research
Mountain View, CA, USA
zhouxin@google.com

Yang Li
Google Research
Mountain View, CA, USA
liyang@google.com

Figure 1: Screen2Words is a novel approach to automatically encapsulates essential information of a UI screen into a coherent
language phrase. We collected the first large-scale screen summarization dataset, consisting of human annotations for 22,417
Android UI screens. We developed a set of deep learning models based on the dataset, leveraging the multi-modal data that
a mobile screen carries. Our evaluation shows that our approach outperforms the heuristics baseline and is able to generate
accurate summaries.

ABSTRACT
Mobile User Interface Summarization generates succinct language
descriptions of mobile screens for conveying important contents
and functionalities of the screen, which can be useful for many
language-based application scenarios. We present Screen2Words, a
novel screen summarization approach that automatically encapsu-
lates essential information of a UI screen into a coherent language
phrase. Summarizing mobile screens requires a holistic understand-
ing of the multi-modal data of mobile UIs, including text, image,
structures as well as UI semantics, motivating our multi-modal
learning approach. We collected and analyzed a large-scale screen
summarization dataset annotated by human workers. Our dataset
contains more than 112k language summarization across ∼22k
unique UI screens. We then experimented with a set of deep models

∗This work was completed while the author was an intern at Google Research.

Permission to make digital or hard copies of part or all of this work for personal or
classroom use is granted without fee provided that copies are not made or distributed
for profit or commercial advantage and that copies bear this notice and the full citation
on the first page. Copyrights for third-party components of this work must be honored.
For all other uses, contact the owner/author(s).
UIST ’21, October 10–14, 2021, Virtual Event, USA
© 2021 Copyright held by the owner/author(s).
ACM ISBN 978-1-4503-8635-7/21/10.
https://doi.org/10.1145/3472749.3474765

with different configurations. Our evaluation of these models with
both automatic accuracy metrics and human rating shows that our
approach can generate high-quality summaries for mobile screens.
We demonstrate potential use cases of Screen2Words and open-
source our dataset and model to lay the foundations for further
bridging language and user interfaces.

CCS CONCEPTS
• Human-centered computing → Human computer interac-
tion (HCI).

KEYWORDS
Mobile UI summarization, screen understanding, deep learning,
language-based UI, dataset.

ACM Reference Format:
Bryan Wang, Gang Li, Xin Zhou, Zhourong Chen, Tovi Grossman, and Yang
Li. 2021. Screen2Words: Automatic Mobile UI Summarization with Mul-
timodal Learning. In The 34th Annual ACM Symposium on User Interface
Software and Technology (UIST ’21), October 10–14, 2021, Virtual Event, USA.
ACM, New York, NY, USA, 13 pages. https://doi.org/10.1145/3472749.3474765

 
 
 
 
 
 
UIST ’21, October 10–14, 2021, Virtual Event, USA

Bryan Wang, Gang Li, Xin Zhou, Zhourong Chen, Tovi Grossman, and Yang Li

1 INTRODUCTION
A mobile user interface screen often contains a rich set of graphical
components from which a user can fulfill one or multiple func-
tionalities. A succinct language description about a UI screen is
useful for many language-based application scenarios. For exam-
ple, a screen summary allows both conversational agents and end
users to easi