4
2
0
2

t
c
O
5
2

]

C
D
.
s
c
[

2
v
6
6
0
0
0
.
7
0
4
2
:
v
i
X
r
a

COMPRESS THEN SERVE: SERVING THOUSANDS OF
LORA ADAPTERS WITH LITTLE OVERHEAD

Rickard Brüel Gabrielsson1

Jiacheng Zhu1 Onkar Bhardwaj2

Leshem Choshen1,2

Kristjan Greenewald2

Mikhail Yurochkin2

Justin Solomon1

1MIT CSAIL, 2MIT-IBM Watson AI Lab

ABSTRACT

Fine-tuning large language models (LLMs) with low-rank adaptations (LoRAs)
has become common practice, often yielding numerous copies of the same LLM
differing only in their LoRA updates. This paradigm presents challenges for sys-
tems that serve real-time responses to queries that each involve a different LoRA.
Prior works optimize the design of such systems but still require continuous load-
ing and offloading of LoRAs, as it is infeasible to store thousands of LoRAs in
GPU memory. To mitigate this issue, we investigate the efficacy of model com-
pression when serving LoRAs. We propose a method for joint compression of
LoRAs into a shared basis paired with LoRA-specific scaling matrices. We ex-
tend our algorithm to learn clusters of LoRAs that are more amenable to joint
compression, allowing it to scale gracefully to large LoRA collections. Our ex-
periments with up to 500 LoRAs demonstrate that compressed LoRAs preserve
performance while offering major throughput gains in realistic serving scenarios
with over a thousand LoRAs, maintaining 80% of the throughput of serving a
single LoRA.

1

INTRODUCTION

The myriad uses for foundation models (FMs) have led to a proliferation of specialized models, each
fine-tuned to perform a downstream task. To avoid fine-tuning foundation models with billions of
parameters, more parameter-efficient fine-tuning (PEFT) algorithms were proposed. An especially
successful PEFT method is low-rank adaptation (LoRA) (Hu et al., 2021), which learns low-rank
additive changes to neural network matrices. Because of the low-rank parameterization, these ma-
trices (called adapter weights) contain orders-of-magnitude fewer parameters than the base model.
Still, LoRA can achieve performance on par with full fine-tuning (Hu et al., 2021).

LoRA’s popularity has triggered a growing need to serve large collections of LoRA adapters at
scale. For example, proprietary and open-source LLM providers offer fine-tuning services (OpenAI,
2024; TogetherAI, 2024; Predibase, 2024) with user bases likely in thousands or even hundreds of
thousands. As each user wants to use their own fine-tuned version of the LLM, simply serving a
dedicated fine-tuned LLM per user becomes infeasible. To this end, S-LoRA (Sheng et al., 2023)
considers a system where only the base LLM is placed on an inference server and individual LoRA
adapters are switched as needed at inference time. S-LoRA optimizes the system’s inner workings
via custom CUDA kernels and memory management to increase the throughput when serving multi-
ple LoRAs. Such multi-LoRA system design has also been adopted in vLLM (Kwon et al., 2023), a
state-of-the-art LLM serving engine. Despite the optimized system design, serving LoRAs still has
a fundamental limitation: when the number of adapters is large, they need to be constantly loaded
and offloaded from GPU memory to accommodate incoming requests, degrading throughput.

The problem of accommodating multiple LoRA adapters is also apparent when placing LLMs on
edge devices, where smaller LLMs are fine-tuned for various tasks and the adapters are swapped
depending on the task at hand (Gunter et al., 2024). In this case, the amount of adapters is smaller,
e.g., a few dozen (Gunter et al., 2024), but the memory constraints are also tighter due to the limited
capacity of edge devices.

1

 
 
 
 
 
 
In this work, we consider the problem of compressing a collection of LoRAs. We have two key
objectives: (1) preserving the performance of the original LoRAs and (2) improving the throughput
of serving many LoRAs. We formulate LoRA compression as a reconstruction problem, where the
goal is to approx