QWEN TECHNICAL REPORT

Jinze Bai, Shuai Bai, Yunfei Chu, Zeyu Cui, Kai Dang, Xiaodong Deng, Yang Fan, Wenbin Ge, Yu
Han, Fei Huang, Binyuan Hui, Luo Ji, Mei Li, Junyang Lin, Runji Lin, Dayiheng Liu, Gao Liu,
Chengqiang Lu, Keming Lu, Jianxin Ma, Rui Men, Xingzhang Ren, Xuancheng Ren, Chuanqi Tan,
Sinan Tan, Jianhong Tu, Peng Wang, Shijie Wang, Wei Wang, Shengguang Wu, Benfeng Xu, Jin
Xu, An Yang, Hao Yang, Jian Yang, Shusheng Yang, Yang Yao, Bowen Yu, Hongyi Yuan, Zheng
Yuan, Jianwei Zhang, Xingxuan Zhang, Yichang Zhang, Zhenru Zhang, Chang Zhou, Jingren Zhou,
Xiaohuan Zhou, Tianhang Zhu.

Qwen Team, Alibaba Group∗

ABSTRACT

Large language models (LLMs) have revolutionized the field of artificial intelli-
gence, enabling natural language processing tasks that were previously thought
to be exclusive to humans. In this work, we introduce QWEN1, the first install-
ment of our large language model series. QWEN is a comprehensive language
model series that encompasses distinct models with varying parameter counts. It
includes QWEN, the base pretrained language models, and QWEN-CHAT, the chat
models finetuned with human alignment techniques. The base language models
consistently demonstrate superior performance across a multitude of downstream
tasks, and the chat models, particularly those trained using Reinforcement Learning
from Human Feedback (RLHF), are highly competitive. The chat models pos-
sess advanced tool-use and planning capabilities for creating agent applications,
showcasing impressive performance even when compared to bigger models on
complex tasks like utilizing a code interpreter. Furthermore, we have developed
coding-specialized models, CODE-QWEN and CODE-QWEN-CHAT, as well as
mathematics-focused models, MATH-QWEN-CHAT, which are built upon base
language models. These models demonstrate significantly improved performance
in comparison with open-source models, and slightly fall behind the proprietary
models.

3
2
0
2

p
e
S
8
2

]
L
C
.
s
c
[

1
v
9
0
6
6
1
.
9
0
3
2
:
v
i
X
r
a

∗Authors are ordered alphabetically by the last name. Correspondence to: ericzhou.zc@alibaba-inc.com.
1QWEN is a moniker of Qianwen, which means “thousands of prompts” in Chinese. The pronunciation of
“QWEN” can vary depending on the context and the individual speaking it. Here is one possible way to pronounce
it: /kwEn/.

1

 
 
 
 
 
 
Contents

1 