4
2
0
2

r
a

M
6
1

]
L
C
.
s
c
[

2
v
5
3
2
1
1
.
9
0
3
2
:
v
i
X
r
a

Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2024

OPENCHAT: ADVANCING OPEN-SOURCE LANGUAGE
MODELS WITH MIXED-QUALITY DATA

Guan Wang1,2∗, Sijie Cheng1,3,5∗, Xianyuan Zhan3,4, Xiangang Li5, Sen Song2 (cid:66), Yang Liu1,3,4 (cid:66)
1Department of Computer Science and Technology, Tsinghua University
2Laboratory of Brain and Intelligence, Tsinghua University
3Institute for AI Industry Research (AIR), Tsinghua University
4Shanghai Artificial Intelligence Laboratory 501.AI
imonenext@gmail.com, csj23@mails.tsinghua.edu.cn

ABSTRACT

Nowadays, open-source large language models like LLaMA have emerged. Re-
cent developments have incorporated supervised fine-tuning (SFT) and reinforce-
ment learning fine-tuning (RLFT) to align these models with human goals. How-
ever, SFT methods treat all training data with mixed quality equally, while RLFT
methods require high-quality pairwise or ranking-based preference data. In this
study, we present a novel framework, named OpenChat, to advance open-source
language models with mixed-quality data. Specifically, we consider the general
SFT training data, consisting of a small amount of expert data mixed with a large
proportion of sub-optimal data, without any preference labels. We propose the
C(onditioned)-RLFT, which regards different data sources as coarse-grained re-
ward labels and learns a class-conditioned policy to leverage complementary data
quality information. Interestingly, the optimal policy in C-RLFT can be easily
solved through single-stage, RL-free supervised learning, which is lightweight and
avoids costly human preference labeling. Through extensive experiments on three
standard benchmarks, our openchat-13b fine-tuned with C-RLFT achieves the
highest average performance among all 13b open-source language models. More-
over, we use AGIEval to validate the model generalization performance, in which
only openchat-13b surpasses the base model. Finally, we conduct a series of
analyses to shed light on the effectiveness and robustness of OpenChat. Our code,
data, and models are publicly available at https://github.com/imoneoi/openchat
and https://huggingface.co/openchat.

1

INTRODUCTION

Recently, there have been notable advancements in Large Language Models (LLMs), such as GPT-
4 (OpenAI, 2023) and Chinchilla (Hoffmann et al., 2022), demonstrating impressive performance
in various downstream natural language processing (NLP) tasks (Zhao et al., 2023). Despite the
remarkable success of GPT-4, the specific techniques employed in its development remain shrouded
in mystery. To gain a deeper understanding of the underlying technical aspects and to promote
the widespread adoption of LLMs, a series of open-source base language models have emerged,
especially LLaMA (Touvron et al., 2023a) and Llama 2 (Touvron et al., 2023b). Building upon the
released base language models, there are typically two methods to align these base models to specific
abilities, including supervised fine-tuning (SFT) and reinforcement learning fine-tuning (RLFT).

The first line of methods (Chiang et al., 2023; Taori et al., 2023) use SFT to enhance instruction
following abilities. Most existing methods primarily focus on designing SFT datasets. Some stud-
ies (Chiang et al., 2023; Geng et al., 2023) collect user-shared conversations as well as human
feedback datasets from the public web, while others (Xu et al., 2023a; Ding et al., 2023) develop
frameworks for automatically gathering extensive open-domain instructions spanning various diffi-
culty levels. However, these constructed SFT datasets are generally mixed with limited expert data

∗Equal contribution

1

 
 
 
 
 
 
Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2024

Figure 1: Our proposed framework OpenChat with Conditioned-RLFT to advance the open-source
language model fine-tuning with mixed-quality data, comparing to previous supervised fine-tuning
(SFT) method and reinforcement learning fine-