In Defense of the Triplet Loss for Person Re-Identiﬁcation

Alexander Hermans∗, Lucas Beyer∗ and Bastian Leibe
Visual Computing Institute
RWTH Aachen University
last@vision.rwth-aachen.org

7
1
0
2

v
o
N
1
2

]

V
C
.
s
c
[

4
v
7
3
7
7
0
.
3
0
7
1
:
v
i
X
r
a

Abstract

In the past few years, the ﬁeld of computer vision has
gone through a revolution fueled mainly by the advent
of large datasets and the adoption of deep convolutional
neural networks for end-to-end learning. The person re-
identiﬁcation subﬁeld is no exception to this. Unfortunately,
a prevailing belief in the community seems to be that the
triplet loss is inferior to using surrogate losses (classiﬁ-
cation, veriﬁcation) followed by a separate metric learn-
ing step. We show that, for models trained from scratch as
well as pretrained ones, using a variant of the triplet loss to
perform end-to-end deep metric learning outperforms most
other published methods by a large margin.

1. Introduction

In recent years, person re-identiﬁcation (ReID) has at-
tracted signiﬁcant attention in the computer vision commu-
nity. Especially with the rise of deep learning, many new
approaches have been proposed to achieve this task [40, 8,
42, 31, 39, 10, 52, 4, 46, 20, 54, 35]1.
In many aspects
person ReID is similar to image retrieval, where signiﬁcant
progress has been made and where deep learning has re-
cently introduced a lot of changes. One prominent example
in the recent literature is FaceNet [29], a convolutional neu-
ral network (CNN) used to learn an embedding for faces.
The key component of FaceNet is to use the triplet loss, as
introduced by Weinberger and Saul [41], for training the
CNN as an embedding function. The triplet loss optimizes
the embedding space such that data points with the same
identity are closer to each other than those with different
identities. A visualization of such an embedding is shown
in Figure 1.

Several approaches for person ReID have already used
some variant of the triplet loss to train their models [17,
9, 28, 8, 40, 31, 33, 26, 6, 25], with moderate success. The

∗Equal contribution. Ordering determined by a last minute coin ﬂip.
1A nice overview of the ﬁeld is given by a recent survey paper [51].

Figure 1: A small crop of the Barnes-Hut t-SNE [38] of
our learned embeddings for the Market-1501 test-set. The
triplet loss learns semantically meaningful features.

recently most successful person ReID approaches argue that
a classiﬁcation loss, possibly combined with a veriﬁcation
loss, is superior for the task [6, 51, 10, 52, 22]. Typically,
these approaches train a deep CNN using one or multiple
of these surrogate losses and subsequently use a part of the
network as a feature extractor, combining it with a metric
learning approach to generate ﬁnal embeddings. Both of
these losses have their problems, though. The classiﬁcation
loss necessitates a growing number of learnable parameters
as the number of identities increases, most of which will
be discarded after training. On the other hand, many of the
networks trained with a veriﬁcation loss have to be used
in a cross-image representation mode, only answering the
question “How similar are these two images?”. This makes

1

 
 
 
 
 
 
using them for any other task, such as clustering or retrieval,
prohibitively expensive, as each probe has to go through the
network paired up with every gallery image.

In this paper we show that, contrary to current opin-
ion, a plain CNN with a triplet loss can outperform current
state-of-the-art approaches on the CUHK03 [21], Market-
1501 [50] and MARS [49] datasets. The triplet loss allows
us to perform end-to-end learning between the input image
and the desired embedding space. This means we directly
optimize the network for the ﬁnal task, which renders an ad-
ditional metric learning step obsolete. Instead, we can sim-
ply compare persons by computing the Euclidean distance
of their embeddings.

A possible reason for the unpopularity of the triplet loss
is that, when applied na¨ıvely, it will indeed often produce
disappointing results. An essential part of learning using
the triplet loss is the mining of hard triplets, as otherwise
training will quickly stagnate. However, mining such hard
triplets is time consuming and it is unclear what deﬁnes
“good” hard triplets [29, 31]. Even worse, selecting too
hard triplets too often makes the training unstable. We show
how this problem can be alleviated, resulting in both faster
training and better performance. We systematically analyze
the design space of triplet losses, and evaluate which one
works best for person ReID. While doing so, we place two
previously proposed variants [9, 32] into this design space
and discuss them in more detail in Section 2. Speciﬁcally,
we ﬁnd that the best performing version has not been used
before. Furthermore we also show that a margin-less formu-
lation performs slightly better, while removing one hyper-
parameter.

Another clear trend seems to be the 