3
2
0
2

n
u
J

0
1

]
L
C
.
s
c
[

2
v
4
4
2
2
1
.
4
0
3
2
:
v
i
X
r
a

WizardLM: Empowering Large Language Models to
Follow Complex Instructions

Pu Zhao1

Can Xu1∗ Qingfeng Sun1∗ Kai Zheng1∗ Xiubo Geng1
Jiazhan Feng2† Chongyang Tao1 Qingwei Lin1 Daxin Jiang1‡

1Microsoft
2Peking University
{caxu,qins,zhengkai,xigeng,puzhao,chongyang.tao,qlin,djiang}@microsoft.com
{fengjiazhan}@pku.edu.cn

Abstract

Training large language models (LLMs) with open-domain instruction following
data brings colossal success. However, manually creating such instruction data
is very time-consuming and labor-intensive. Moreover, humans may struggle to
produce high-complexity instructions. In this paper, we show an avenue for creating
large amounts of instruction data with varying levels of complexity using LLM
instead of humans. Starting with an initial set of instructions, we use our proposed
Evol-Instruct to rewrite them step by step into more complex instructions. Then, we
mix all generated instruction data to fine-tune LLaMA. We call the resulting model
WizardLM. Human evaluations on a complexity-balanced test bed and Vicuna’s
testset show that instructions from Evol-Instruct are superior to human-created
ones. By analyzing the human evaluation results of the high complexity part, we
demonstrate that outputs from our WizardLM model are preferred to outputs from
OpenAI ChatGPT. In GPT-4 automatic evaluation, WizardLM achieves more than
90% capacity of ChatGPT on 17 out of 29 skills. Even though WizardLM still
lags behind ChatGPT in some aspects, our findings suggest that fine-tuning with
AI-evolved instructions is a promising direction for enhancing LLMs. Our code
and data are public at https://github.com/nlpxucan/WizardLM.

1

Introduction

Large-scale language models (LLMs) have become the go-to approach for numerous natural language
processing (NLP) tasks [1–4]. LLMs are trained on large volumes of text data to predict the
subsequent tokens, enabling them to generate coherent and fluent text in response to various inputs.
However, these models often struggle to follow instructions or goals specified by users, which limits
their usefulness and applicability in real-world scenarios.

The NLP community has recently witnessed many endeavors to train LLMs to follow instructions
better and be more helpful [5–8]. Initial attempts [9–13] to train instruction-following language mod-
els are based on a collection of various NLP tasks, with a small amount of hand-written instructions
accompanying each task. These closed-domain instructions suffer from two main drawbacks: first, all
the samples in an NLP dataset share only a few common instructions, severely limiting their diversity;
second, the instructions usually only ask for one task, such as translation or summarization. But in
real life, human instructions often have multiple and varied task demands. By using open-domain in-

∗ Equal contribution.
† Work done during the internship at Microsoft.
‡ Corresponding author.

Preprint. Under review.

 
 
 
 
 
 
struction data generated by real human users, OpenAI’s LLMs (e.g., InstructGPT [2] and ChatGPT 4)
have achieved great success. These open-domain instructions can fully unleash the unlimited potential
of LLMs [14–17] and enable them to perform more complex and diverse tasks. However, using
humans to create open-domain instruction datasets like OpenAI did will encounter the following
challenges. The whole annotating process is extremely expensive and time-consuming [18–21]. On
the other hand, the difficulty level distribution of human-created instructions is skewed towards being
easy or moderate, with fewer difficult ones (according to the difficulty statistics of ShareGPT [22]
from Figure 7a). Possible reasons for this are that the proportion of experts among annotators is low
and creating complex instructions demands a lot of mental effort. Human annotators are prone to
fatigue and cannot sustain high-intensity work to produce a sufficient proportion of high-difficulty
instructions [23–26]. Based on these issues, developing an automatic method that can mass-produce
open-domain instructions (especially the more difficult ones) at a relatively low cost becomes the key
to further advancing instruction-tuned language models [27–30].

Figure 1: Running Examples of Evol-Instruct.

In this work, we introduce Evol-Instruct, a novel method using LLMs instead of humans to automati-
cally mass-produce open-domain instructions of various difficulty levels, to improve the performance
of LLMs. Figure 1 shows the running examples of Evol-Instruct. Starting from a simple initial in-
struction “1+1=?”, our method randomly selects In-depth Evolving (blue direction line) or In-breadth
Evolving (red direction line) to upgrade the simple instruction to a more complex one or create a new
one (to increase diversity). The In-depth Evolving includes five types of operations: add constraints,
deepening, concretizing, increase reasoning steps, and compl