TOXIGEN: A Large-Scale Machine-Generated Dataset for Adversarial
and Implicit Hate Speech Detection

Warning: this paper discusses and contains content that can be offensive or upsetting.

Thomas Hartvigsen♠ Saadia Gabriel♥ Hamid Palangi♣ Maarten Sap(cid:78)(cid:77)
Dipankar Ray♦ Ece Kamar♣

♠Massachusetts Institute of Technology

♥University of Washington

♣Microsoft Research
♦Microsoft
tomh@mit.edu, skgabrie@cs.washington.edu, hpalangi@microsoft.com, maartensap@cmu.edu

(cid:77)Carnegie Mellon University

(cid:78)Allen Institute for AI

2
2
0
2

l
u
J

4
1

]
L
C
.
s
c
[

4
v
9
0
5
9
0
.
3
0
2
2
:
v
i
X
r
a

{diray,eckamar}@microsoft.com

Abstract

Toxic language detection systems often falsely
ﬂag text that contains minority group men-
tions as toxic, as those groups are often the
targets of online hate. Such over-reliance on
spurious correlations also causes systems to
struggle with detecting implicitly toxic lan-
guage. To help mitigate these issues, we cre-
ate TOXIGEN, a new large-scale and machine-
generated dataset of 274k toxic and benign
statements about 13 minority groups. We de-
velop a demonstration-based prompting frame-
work and an adversarial classiﬁer-in-the-loop
decoding method to generate subtly toxic and
benign text with a massive pretrained language
model (Brown et al., 2020). Controlling ma-
chine generation in this way allows TOXIGEN
to cover implicitly toxic text at a larger scale,
and about more demographic groups, than pre-
vious resources of human-written text. We
conduct a human evaluation on a challeng-
ing subset of TOXIGEN and ﬁnd that annota-
tors struggle to distinguish machine-generated
text from human-written language. We also
ﬁnd that 94.5% of toxic examples are labeled
as hate speech by human annotators. Using
three publicly-available datasets, we show that
ﬁnetuning a toxicity classiﬁer on our data im-
proves its performance on human-written data
substantially. We also demonstrate that TOXI-
GEN can be used to ﬁght machine-generated
toxicity as ﬁnetuning improves the classiﬁer
signiﬁcantly on our evaluation subset. Our
code and data can be found at https://
github.com/microsoft/ToxiGen.

1

Introduction

Toxic language detectors often over-rely on minor-
ity identity mentions1 when ﬂagging a statement
as toxic, without considering the deeper seman-
tic meaning of the statement (Dixon et al., 2018;

1In this work, we use “minority” to refer to social and
demographic groups that are frequently the targets of oppres-
sion, discrimination, or prejudice (RWJF, 2017), from a U.S.
socio-cultural perspective.

Röttger et al., 2021). This can lead to severe under-
detection of subtle hate (e.g., “They have been bred
to be good at sports and entertainment, but not
much else”; Figure 1) and over-detection of benign
statements (e.g., “child abuse is wrong, racism
is wrong, sexism is wrong”; Figure 1).
Impor-
tantly, such biases in toxicity detection risk further
marginalizing or censoring minority groups (Yasin,
2018; Sap et al., 2019; Dias Oliva et al., 2020; Are,
2020; Díaz and Hecht-Felella, 2021).

We introduce TOXIGEN, a large-scale machine-
generated dataset of 274,186 toxic and benign state-
ments. To create this dataset, we leverage the
massive pretrained language model GPT-3 (Brown
et al., 2020), which is known to produce close-
to-human-like text (Clark et al., 2021; Dou et al.,
2021) but also easily generates socially biased and
toxic content (Sheng et al., 2019; Gehman et al.,
2020). While such human-like bias and toxicity
poses real threats, we use this undesirable behavior
in models like GPT-3 to improve existing toxic lan-
guage classiﬁers, providing a path forward for miti-
gating systemic bias. Created using demonstration-
based prompting and pretrained toxicity classiﬁers,
TOXIGEN covers over 135k toxic and 135k benign
statements about 13 minority identity groups (e.g.,
African Americans, women, LGBTQ+ folks, etc.).
Using this machine generated approach has two
advantages over scraping posts from the web as
done by previous work (e.g., Davidson et al., 2017;
Founta et al., 2018; Zampieri et al., 2019). First,
it allows us to limit spurious identity-toxicity cor-
relations (Dixon et al., 2018; Zhou et al., 2021)
by generating equal numbers of toxic/benign state-
ments for each demographic group, including those
that are often overlooked in toxic language corpora
(e.g., Native Americans). Second, machine genera-
tion and careful prompting enables us to generate
implicit toxicity (i.e., without swearwords or slurs),
which is by deﬁnition hard to detect or ﬁnd and thus
often missing in toxic language corpora (Wiegand

 
 
 
 
 
 
), AI2 Delphi (

), Open AI content ﬁlter
Figure 1: Examples of statements that fool Google’s Perspective API (
(
). Five statements are benign, but mention minorities and so classiﬁers
ﬁnd them hateful. Five are toxic sentences, but the classiﬁers ﬁnd them neutral. ALICE attacks these classiﬁers to
generate a large-scale, implicit, and bal