Gender Bias in Coreference Resolution

Rachel Rudinger, Jason Naradowsky, Brian Leonard, and Benjamin Van Durme
Johns Hopkins University

8
1
0
2

r
p
A
5
2

]
L
C
.
s
c
[

1
v
1
0
3
9
0
.
4
0
8
1
:
v
i
X
r
a

Abstract

We present an empirical study of gender bias
in coreference resolution systems. We ﬁrst in-
troduce a novel, Winograd schema-style set of
minimal pair sentences that differ only by pro-
noun gender. With these Winogender schemas,
we evaluate and conﬁrm systematic gender
bias in three publicly-available coreference
resolution systems, and correlate this bias with
real-world and textual gender statistics.

1

Introduction

There is a classic riddle: A man and his son get
into a terrible car crash. The father dies, and the
boy is badly injured. In the hospital, the surgeon
looks at the patient and exclaims, “I can’t operate
on this boy, he’s my son!” How can this be?

That a majority of people are reportedly unable
to solve this riddle1 is taken as evidence of un-
derlying implicit gender bias (Wapman and Belle,
2014): many ﬁrst-time listeners have difﬁculty as-
signing both the role of “mother” and “surgeon” to
the same entity.

As the riddle reveals, the task of coreference
resolution in English is tightly bound with ques-
tions of gender, for humans and automated sys-
tems alike (see Figure 1). As awareness grows
of the ways in which data-driven AI technolo-
gies may acquire and amplify human-like biases
(Caliskan et al., 2017; Barocas and Selbst, 2016;
Hovy and Spruit, 2016), this work investigates
how gender biases manifest in coreference reso-
lution systems.

There are many ways one could approach this
question; here we focus on gender bias with re-
spect to occupations, for which we have corre-
sponding U.S. employment statistics. Our ap-
in
proach is to construct a challenge dataset

1The surgeon is the boy’s mother.

Figure 1: Stanford CoreNLP rule-based coreference
system resolves a male and neutral pronoun as coref-
erent with “The surgeon,” but does not for the corre-
sponding female pronoun.

the style of Winograd schemas, wherein a pro-
noun must be resolved to one of two previously-
mentioned entities in a sentence designed to be
easy for humans to interpret, but challenging for
data-driven systems (Levesque et al., 2011).
In
our setting, one of these mentions is a person
referred to by their occupation; by varying only
the pronoun’s gender, we are able to test the im-
pact of gender on resolution. With these “Wino-
gender schemas,” we demonstrate the presence
of systematic gender bias in multiple publicly-
available coreference resolution systems, and that
occupation-speciﬁc bias is correlated with em-
ployment statistics. We release these test sen-
tences to the public.2

In our experiments, we represent gender as a
categorical variable with either two or three possi-
ble values: female, male, and (in some cases) neu-
tral. These choices reﬂect limitations of the textual
and real-world datasets we use.

2 Coreference Systems

In this work, we evaluate three publicly-
available off-the-shelf coreference resolution sys-
tems, representing three different machine learn-
ing paradigms: rule-based systems, feature-driven

2https://github.com/rudinger/

winogender-schemas

 
 
 
 
 
 
statistical systems, and neural systems.

Rule-based In the absence of large-scale data
for training coreference models, early systems re-
lied heavily on expert knowledge. A frequently
used example of this is the Stanford multi-pass
sieve system (Lee et al., 2011). A deterministic
system, the sieve consists of multiple rule-based
models which are applied in succession, from
highest-precision to lowest. Gender is among the
set of mention attributes identiﬁed in the very ﬁrst
stage of the sieve, making this information avail-
able throughout the system.

Statistical Statistical methods, often with mil-
lions of parameters, ultimately surpassed the per-
formance of rule-based systems on shared task
data (Durrett and Klein, 2013; Bj¨orkelund and
Kuhn, 2014). The system of Durrett and Klein
(2013) replaced hand-written rules with simple
feature templates. Combinations of these features
implicitly capture linguistic phenomena useful for
resolving antecedents, but they may also uninten-
tionally capture bias in the data. For instance, for
occupations which are not frequently found in the
data, an occupation+pronoun feature can be highly
informative, and the overly conﬁdent model can
exhibit strong bias when applied to a new domain.

Neural The move to deep neural models led to
more powerful antecedent scoring functions, and
the subsequent learned feature combinations re-
sulted in new state-of-the-art performance (Wise-
man et al., 2015; Clark and Manning, 2016b).
Global inference over these models further im-
proved performance (Wiseman et al., 2016; Clark
and Manning, 2016a), but from the perspective
of potential bias, the information available to the
model is largely the same as in the statistical mod-
e