Widget Captioning: Generating Natural Language Description for Mobile
User Interface Elements

Yang Li∗, Gang Li∗, Luheng He, Jingjie Zheng, Hong Li†, Zhiwei Guan
Google Research, Mountain View, CA 94043, USA
Georgia Tech, Atlanta, GA 30332, USA†
{liyang, leebird, luheng, jingjiezheng, zguan}@google.com

0
2
0
2

t
c
O
8

]

G
L
.
s
c
[

1
v
5
9
2
4
0
.
0
1
0
2
:
v
i
X
r
a

Abstract

Natural language descriptions of user interface
(UI) elements such as alternative text are cru-
cial for accessibility and language-based inter-
action in general. Yet, these descriptions are
constantly missing in mobile UIs. We pro-
pose widget captioning, a novel task for auto-
matically generating language descriptions for
UI elements from multimodal input including
both the image and the structural representa-
tions of user interfaces. We collected a large-
scale dataset for widget captioning with crowd-
sourcing. Our dataset contains 162,859 lan-
guage phrases created by human workers for
annotating 61,285 UI elements across 21,750
unique UI screens. We thoroughly analyze the
dataset, and train and evaluate a set of deep
model conﬁgurations to investigate how each
feature modality as well as the choice of learn-
ing strategies impact the quality of predicted
captions. The task formulation and the dataset
as well as our benchmark models contribute a
solid basis for this novel multimodal caption-
ing task that connects language and user inter-
faces.

1

Introduction

Mobile apps come with a rich and diverse set of
design styles, which are often more graphical and
unconventional compared to traditional desktop ap-
plications. Language descriptions of user interface
(UI) elements—that we refer to as widget captions—
are a precondition for many aspects of mobile UI
usability. For example, accessibility services such
as screen readers, e.g., Talkback (2019), rely on
widget captions to make UI elements accessible to
visually impaired users via text-to-speech technolo-
gies. Importantly, widget captions are an enabler
for many language-based interaction capabilities

∗ Equal contribution
† Participated in the project during an internship at Google

Research.

Figure 1: Widget captioning is a task to generate lan-
guage descriptions for UI elements that miss captions,
given multimodal input of UI structures and screenshot
images. These captions are crucial for accessibility and
language-based interaction in general.

such as voice commands and general screen under-
standing efforts.

However, a signiﬁcant portion of mobile apps
today lack widget captions in their user interfaces,
which have stood out as a primary issue for mo-
bile accessibility (Ross et al., 2018, 2017). More
than half of image-based elements have missing
captions (Ross et al., 2018). Beyond image-based
ones, our analysis of a UI corpus here showed that
a wide range of elements have missing captions.
Existing tools for examining and ﬁxing missing
captions (AccessibilityScanner, 2019; AndroidLint,
2019; Zhang et al., 2018, 2017; Choo et al., 2019)
require developers to manually compose a language
description for each element, which imposes a sub-
stantial overhead on developers.

We propose widget captioning, a novel task to
automatically generate captions for UI elements1
based on their visual appearance, structural proper-
ties and context (see Figure 1). This task is analo-
gous to image captioning that generates language
descriptions for images, e.g., Xu et al. (2015);
Lin et al. (2014). However, widget captioning

1We use widgets and elements interchangeably.

View Hierarchy Structures play songadd a new playlistModelWidget CaptionsElement PixelsMobile UI  
 
 
 
 
 
raises several unique challenges. User interfaces
are highly structural while traditional image cap-
tioning mostly focus on raw image pixels. Wid-
get captioning is concerned with describing indi-
vidual elements in the UI rather than the entire
UI screen, while the entire screen provides useful
contextual information for widget captioning. We
target language generation for a broad set of UI
elements, rather than only image-based ones. As
we will show in our data analysis, many non-image
elements also suffer the lack of captions. These
challenges give rise to several interesting modeling
questions such as how to combine both structural
and image input and how to effectively represent
each modality.

We start by processing and analyzing a mo-
bile UI corpus. We then create a large dataset
for widget captioning by asking crowd workers
to annotate a collection of UI elements in the cor-
pus. Based on this dataset, we train and evaluate
a set of model conﬁgurations to investigate how
each feature modality and the choice of learning
strategies would impact caption generation qual-
ity. Our champion model that is based on a Trans-
former (Vaswani et al., 2017) to encode structural
information and a ResNet (He et al., 2015) for im-
age input is able to produce accurate captions for
UI elements based o