3
2
0
2
c
e
D
4
2

]
L
C
.
s
c
[

4
v
5
8
6
5
0
.
6
0
3
2
:
v
i
X
r
a

Judging LLM-as-a-Judge
with MT-Bench and Chatbot Arena

Lianmin Zheng1∗ Wei-Lin Chiang1∗

Ying Sheng4∗

Siyuan Zhuang1

Zhanghao Wu1

Yonghao Zhuang3

Zi Lin2

Zhuohan Li1

Dacheng Li13

Eric P. Xing35 Hao Zhang12

Joseph E. Gonzalez1

Ion Stoica1

1 UC Berkeley

2 UC San Diego

3 Carnegie Mellon University

4 Stanford

5 MBZUAI

Abstract

Evaluating large language model (LLM) based chat assistants is challenging due to
their broad capabilities and the inadequacy of existing benchmarks in measuring
human preferences. To address this, we explore using strong LLMs as judges to
evaluate these models on more open-ended questions. We examine the usage and
limitations of LLM-as-a-judge, including position, verbosity, and self-enhancement
biases, as well as limited reasoning ability, and propose solutions to mitigate some
of them. We then verify the agreement between LLM judges and human preferences
by introducing two benchmarks: MT-bench, a multi-turn question set; and Chatbot
Arena, a crowdsourced battle platform. Our results reveal that strong LLM judges
like GPT-4 can match both controlled and crowdsourced human preferences well,
achieving over 80% agreement, the same level of agreement between humans.
Hence, LLM-as-a-judge is a scalable and explainable way to approximate human
preferences, which are otherwise very expensive to obtain. Additionally, we show
our benchmark and traditional benchmarks complement each other by evaluating
several variants of LLaMA and Vicuna. The MT-bench questions, 3K expert votes,
and 30K conversations with human preferences are publicly available at https:
//github.com/lm-sys/FastChat/tree/main/fastchat/llm_judge.

1

Introduction

There has been a proliferation of LLM-based chat assistants (chatbots) that leverage supervised
instruction fine-tuning and reinforcement learning with human feedback (RLHF) to unlock new
instruction following and conversational abilities [31, 2, 30, 8, 52, 48, 14]. Once aligned with
humans, these chat models are strongly preferred by human users over the original, unaligned models
on which they are built. However, the heightened user preference does not always correspond to
improved scores on traditional LLM benchmarks – benchmarks like MMLU [19] and HELM [24]
cannot effectively tell the difference between these aligned models and the base models. This
phenomenon suggests that there is a fundamental discrepancy between user perceptions of the
usefulness of chatbots and the criteria adopted by conventional benchmarks.

We argue that this discrepancy primarily arises due to existing evaluation that only measures LLMs’
core capability on a confined set of tasks (e.g., multi-choice knowledge or retrieval questions),
without adequately assessing its alignment with human preference in open-ended tasks, such as the
ability to accurately adhere to instructions in multi-turn dialogues. As a demonstration, we show

∗Joint first authors. This paper is an extended version of our earlier blog post [8].

37th Conference on Neural Information Processing Systems (NeurIPS 2023) Track on Datasets and Benchmarks.

 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 1: Multi-turn dialogues between a user and two AI assistants—LLaMA-13B (Assistant A)
and Vicuna-13B (Assistant B)—initiated by a question from the MMLU benchmark and a follow-up
instruction. GPT-4 is then presented with the context to determine which assistant answers better.

conversation histories with two models on an MMLU question in Figure 1. The two models are
LLaMA-13B [39], a pre-trained base model without fine-tuning, and Vicuna-13B, our fine-tuned
model from LLaMA-13B on high-quality conversations (the training details are in Appendix E).
Despite the base LLaMA models showing competitive performance on conventional benchmarks
(Table 8), its answers to open-ended questions are often not preferred by humans. This misalignment
of conventional benchmarks underscores the core problem driving this paper: the need for a robust
and scalable automated method to evaluate LLM alignment with human preferences.

To study this, we introduce two benchmarks with human ratings as the primary evaluation metric:
MT-bench and Chatbot Arena. MT-bench is a series of open-ended questions that evaluate a chatbot’s
multi-turn conversational and instruction-following ability – two critical elements for human prefer-
ence. MT-bench is also carefully constructed to differentiate chatbots based on their core capabilities,
such as reasoning and math. In addition, we develop Chatbot Arena, a crowdsourced platform fea-
turing anonymous battles between chatbots in real-world scenarios – Users engage in conversations
with two chatbots at the same time and rate their responses based on personal preferences.

While human evaluation is the gold standard for assessing human preferences, it is exceptionally slow
and costly. To automate the evaluation, we explore the use of state-of-the-art LLMs, suc