Robust Speech Recognition via Large-Scale Weak Supervision

2
2
0
2

c
e
D
6

]
S
A
.
s
s
e
e
[

1
v
6
5
3
4
0
.
2
1
2
2
:
v
i
X
r
a

Alec Radford * 1 Jong Wook Kim * 1 Tao Xu 1 Greg Brockman 1 Christine McLeavey 1 Ilya Sutskever 1

Abstract

We study the capabilities of speech processing
systems trained simply to predict large amounts of
transcripts of audio on the internet. When scaled
to 680,000 hours of multilingual and multitask
supervision, the resulting models generalize well
to standard benchmarks and are often competitive
with prior fully supervised results but in a zero-
shot transfer setting without the need for any ﬁne-
tuning. When compared to humans, the models
approach their accuracy and robustness. We are
releasing models and inference code to serve as
a foundation for further work on robust speech
processing.

1. Introduction

Progress in speech recognition has been energized by the
development of unsupervised pre-training techniques exem-
pliﬁed by Wav2Vec 2.0 (Baevski et al., 2020). Since these
methods learn directly from raw audio without the need for
human labels, they can productively use large datasets of un-
labeled speech and have been quickly scaled up to 1,000,000
hours of training data (Zhang et al., 2021), far more than the
1,000 or so hours typical of an academic supervised dataset.
When ﬁne-tuned on standard benchmarks, this approach
has improved the state of the art, especially in a low-data
setting.

These pre-trained audio encoders learn high-quality repre-
sentations of speech, but because they are purely unsuper-
vised they lack an equivalently performant decoder mapping
those representations to usable outputs, necessitating a ﬁne-
tuning stage in order to actually perform a task such as
speech recognition1. This unfortunately limits their use-
fulness and impact as ﬁne-tuning can still be a complex
process requiring a skilled practitioner. There is an addi-
tional risk with requiring ﬁne-tuning. Machine learning

*Equal contribution 1OpenAI, San Francisco, CA 94110, USA.
Correspondence to: Alec Radford <alec@openai.com>, Jong
Wook Kim <jongwook@openai.com>.

1Baevski et al. (2021) is an exciting exception - having devel-

oped a fully unsupervised speech recognition system

methods are exceedingly adept at ﬁnding patterns within a
training dataset which boost performance on held-out data
from the same dataset. However, some of these patterns are
brittle and spurious and don’t generalize to other datasets
and distributions. In a particularly disturbing example, Rad-
ford et al. (2021) documented a 9.2% increase in object
classiﬁcation accuracy when ﬁne-tuning a computer vision
model on the ImageNet dataset (Russakovsky et al., 2015)
without observing any improvement in average accuracy
when classifying the same objects on seven other natural
image datasets. A model that achieves “superhuman” per-
formance when trained on a dataset can still make many
basic errors when evaluated on another, possibly precisely
because it is exploiting those dataset-speciﬁc quirks that
humans are oblivious to (Geirhos et al., 2020).

This suggests that while unsupervised pre-training has im-
proved the quality of audio encoders dramatically, the lack
of an equivalently high-quality pre-trained decoder, com-
bined with a recommended protocol of dataset-speciﬁc ﬁne-
tuning, is a crucial weakness which limits their usefulness
and robustness. The goal of a speech recognition system
should be to work reliably “out of the box” in a broad range
of environments without requiring supervised ﬁne-tuning of
a decoder for every deployment distribution.

As demonstrated by Narayanan et al. (2018), Likhomanenko
et al. (2020), and Chan et al. (2021) speech recognition sys-
tems that are pre-trained in a supervised fashion across many
datasets/domains exhibit higher robustness and generalize
much more effectively to held-out datasets than models
trained on a single source. These works achieve this by
combining as many existing high-quality speech recogni-
tion datasets as possible. However, there is still only a
moderate amount of this data easily available. SpeechStew
(Chan et al., 2021) mixes together 7 pre-existing datasets
totalling 5,140 hours of supervision. While not insigniﬁ-
cant, this is still tiny compared to the previously mentioned
1,000,000 hours of unlabeled speech data utilized in Zhang
et al. (2021).

Recognizing the limiting size of existing high-quality super-
vised datasets, recent efforts have created larger datasets for
speech recognition. By relaxing the requirement of gold-
standard human-validated transcripts, Chen et al. (2021) and
Galvez et al. (2021) make use of sophisticated automated

 
 
 
 
 
 
Robust Speech Recognition via Large-Scale Weak Supervision

2

pipelines to scale weakly supervised speech recognition
to 10,000 and 30,000 hours of noisier training data. This
trade-off between quality and quantity is often the right
call. Although understudied so far for speech recog