Learning Word Vectors for 157 Languages

Edouard Grave1,∗ Piotr Bojanowski1,∗ Prakhar Gupta1,2 Armand Joulin1 Tomas Mikolov1

1Facebook AI Research

2EPFL

8
1
0
2

r
a

M
8
2

]
L
C
.
s
c
[

2
v
3
9
8
6
0
.
2
0
8
1
:
v
i
X
r
a

{egrave,bojanowski,ajoulin,tmikolov}@fb.com, prakhar.gupta@epfl.ch
Abstract
Distributed word representations, or word vectors, have recently been applied to many tasks in natural language processing, leading
to state-of-the-art performance. A key ingredient to the successful application of these representations is to train them on very large
corpora, and use these pre-trained models in downstream tasks.
In this paper, we describe how we trained such high quality word
representations for 157 languages. We used two sources of data to train these models: the free online encyclopedia Wikipedia and data
from the common crawl project. We also introduce three new word analogy datasets to evaluate these word vectors, for French, Hindi
and Polish. Finally, we evaluate our pre-trained word vectors on 10 languages for which evaluation datasets exists, showing very strong
performance compared to previous models.

Keywords: word vectors, word analogies, fasttext

1.

Introduction

are available at https://fasttext.cc.

Distributed word representations, also known as word vec-
tors, have been widely used in natural language processing,
leading to state of the art results for many tasks. Publicly
available models, which are pre-trained on large amounts of
data, have become a standard tool for many NLP applica-
tions, but are mostly available for English. While different
techniques have been proposed to learn such representa-
tions (Collobert and Weston, 2008; Mikolov et al., 2013b;
Pennington et al., 2014), all rely on the distributional hy-
pothesis – the idea that the meaning of a word is captured
by the contexts in which it appears. Thus, the quality of
word vectors directly depends on the amount and quality of
data they were trained on.
A common source of data to learn word representations,
available in many languages, is the online encyclopedia
Wikipedia (Al-Rfou et al., 2013). This provides high qual-
ity data which is comparable across languages. Unfortu-
nately, for many languages, the size of Wikipedia is rel-
atively small, and often not enough to learn high quality
word vectors with wide coverage. An alternative source
of large scale text data is the web and resources such as
the common crawl. While they provide noisier data than
Wikipedia articles, they come in larger amounts and with a
broader coverage.
In this work, we contribute high quality word vectors
trained on Wikipedia and the Common Crawl corpus, as
well as three new word analogy datasets. We collected
training corpora for 157 languages, using Wikipedia and
Common Crawl. We describe in details the procedure for
splitting the data by language and pre-processing it in Sec-
tion 2. Using this data, we trained word vectors using
an extension of the fastText model with subword informa-
tion (Bojanowski et al., 2017), as described in Section 3. In
Section 4, we introduce three new word analogy datasets
for French, Hindi and Polish and evaluate our word rep-
resentations on word analogy tasks. Overall, we evaluate
our word vectors on 10 languages: Czech, German, Span-
ish, Finnish, French, Hindi, Italian, Polish, Portuguese and
Chinese. Our models for 157 languages other than English

the Google News dataset

Related work.
In previous work, word vectors pre-
trained on large text
corpora have been released
alongside open source implementation of word em-
English word vectors trained on
bedding models.
a part of
(100B tokens)
were published with word2vec (Mikolov et al., 2013b).
Pennington et al. (2014) released GloVe models trained
on Wikipedia, Gigaword and Common Crawl (840B to-
kens). A notable effort is the work of Al-Rfou et al. (2013),
in which word vectors have been trained for 100 languages
using Wikipedia data.

2. Training Data
We train our word vectors using datasets composed of a
mixture of Wikipedia and Common Crawl.

2.1. Wikipedia
Wikipedia is the largest free online encyclopedia, available
in more than 200 different languages. Because the articles
are curated, the corresponding text is of high quality, mak-
ing Wikipedia a great resource for (multilingual) natural
language processing. It has been applied to many different
tasks, such as information extraction (Wu and Weld, 2010),
or word sense disambiguation (Mihalcea, 2007). We down-
loaded the XML Wikipedia dumps from September 11,
2017. The ﬁrst preprocessing step is to extract the text con-
tent from the XML dumps. For this purpose, we used a
modiﬁed version of the wikifil.pl script1 from Matt
Mahoney.
Even if Wikipedia is available for more than 200 languages,
many dumps are relatively small in size (compared to the
English one). As an example, some widely spoken lan-
guages such as Hindi, have relatively small Wikipedia data
(39 millions tokens). Overall, 28 la