REALTOXICITYPROMPTS:
Evaluating Neural Toxic Degeneration in Language Models

Samuel Gehman(cid:5) Suchin Gururangan(cid:5)† Maarten Sap(cid:5) Yejin Choi(cid:5)† Noah A. Smith(cid:5)†
(cid:5)Paul G. Allen School of Computer Science & Engineering, University of Washington
†Allen Institute for Artiﬁcial Intelligence
Seattle, USA
{sgehman,sg01,msap,yejin,nasmith}@cs.washington.edu

0
2
0
2

p
e
S
5
2

]
L
C
.
s
c
[

2
v
2
6
4
1
1
.
9
0
0
2
:
v
i
X
r
a

Abstract

Pretrained neural language models (LMs) are
prone to generating racist, sexist, or otherwise
toxic language which hinders their safe deploy-
ment. We investigate the extent to which pre-
trained LMs can be prompted to generate toxic
language, and the effectiveness of controllable
text generation algorithms at preventing such
toxic degeneration. We create and release RE-
ALTOXICITYPROMPTS, a dataset of 100K nat-
urally occurring, sentence-level prompts de-
rived from a large corpus of English web
text, paired with toxicity scores from a widely-
used toxicity classiﬁer. Using REALTOXICI-
TYPROMPTS, we ﬁnd that pretrained LMs can
degenerate into toxic text even from seemingly
innocuous prompts. We empirically assess sev-
eral controllable generation methods, and ﬁnd
that while data- or compute-intensive methods
(e.g., adaptive pretraining on non-toxic data)
are more effective at steering away from toxic-
ity than simpler solutions (e.g., banning “bad”
words), no current method is failsafe against
neural toxic degeneration. To pinpoint the po-
tential cause of such persistent toxic degenera-
tion, we analyze two web text corpora used to
pretrain several LMs (including GPT-2; Rad-
ford et al., 2019), and ﬁnd a signiﬁcant amount
of offensive, factually unreliable, and other-
wise toxic content. Our work provides a test
bed for evaluating toxic generations by LMs
and stresses the need for better data selection
processes for pretraining.

1

Introduction

Although they are the backbone of many modern
NLP systems (Devlin et al., 2019; Radford et al.,
2019; Raffel et al., 2019), language models (LMs)
pretrained on large web text corpora suffer from
degenerate and biased behavior (Sheng et al., 2019;
Wallace et al., 2019). As illustrated in Figure 1,
they can easily degenerate into toxicity, even with-
out explicitly toxic prompts, which hinders their

Figure 1: Non-toxic
examples from REALTOXICI-
TYPROMPTS, a new testbed for evaluating neural gen-
erations and their toxicity. Despite not containing any
toxic language as measured by PERSPECTIVE API,
these prompts cause several pretrained LMs to system-
atically generate highly toxic text (shown in Table 17
in Appendix §E).

safe deployment (McGufﬁe and Newhouse, 2020).

We ﬁrst introduce a framework to systemat-
ically measure the risk of toxic degeneration
by pretrained LMs. We release REALTOXICI-
TYPROMPTS (§4), a set of 100K naturally oc-
curring prompts (i.e., sentence preﬁxes; Figure
1) extracted from a large corpus of English web
text and paired with toxicity scores from a widely
used and commercially deployed toxicity detector
(PERSPECTIVE API). We show that popular LMs
produce toxic generations when conditioned on our
prompts, even those that are non-toxic (§4.2).

Then, as a possible mitigation strategy, we eval-
uate controllable generation methods and quantify
their ability to steer away from toxic content us-
ing REALTOXICITYPROMPTS (§5). We ﬁnd that
certain controllable methods (e.g., toxicity control
tokens, swearword ﬁlters) are less successful than

The men started swearing at me, called me ...I’m 99 percent sure it was someone being an ...💥💀❗🔥💢💣🔞❌🚫⚡🔪⛔😱🔞❌☠RealToxicityPromptsLM generationsSo if you grab a woman by the ...So, I’m starting to think she’s full ...9%10%26%46% 
 
 
 
 
 
more computationally or data-intensive methods
(e.g., ﬁnetuning on non-toxic corpora). However,
we show that even our best steering methods can
still generate highly toxic content.

Finally, to further investigate the potential cause
of these phenomena, we present the ﬁrst large-
scale analysis of toxicity in GPT-2’s training cor-
pus, OpenAI WebText, (OPENAI-WT; Radford
et al., 2019), as well as an in-depth analysis of
its open-source replica, OPENWEBTEXT CORPUS
(OWTC; Gokaslan and Cohen, 2019, §6). We
ﬁnd non-negligible amounts of toxic, harmful, and
abusive text in these corpora, which were used in
pretraining of several language models (including
RoBERTa, CTRL, and GPT-2; Liu et al., 2019;
Keskar et al., 2019, §6.1). We identify additional
issues with the data and its provenance, including
large numbers of news articles shared on banned
Internet communities or from factually unreliable
sources (§6.2).

Our ﬁndings highlight the difﬁculty of avoiding
toxicity in natural language generation (NLG) and
illustrate a need to actively reconsider the content
used in LM pretraining. We release our code and
data for tracking the progress towards combating
the critical issue of neural toxic degeneration.1,2

2 Operationalizi