3
2
0
2

t
c
O
7
2

]

G
L
.
s
c
[

2
v
8
0
7
1
0
.
6
0
3
2
:
v
i
X
r
a

TIES-MERGING: Resolving Interference When
Merging Models

Prateek Yadav1 Derek Tam1
Leshem Choshen2,3 Colin Raffel1 Mohit Bansal1

1 University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill

2 IBM Research

3 MIT

leshem.choshen@ibm.com
{praty,dtredsox,craffel,mbansal}@cs.unc.edu

Abstract

Transfer learning – i.e., further fine-tuning a pre-trained model on a downstream
task – can confer significant advantages, including improved downstream perfor-
mance, faster convergence, and better sample efficiency. These advantages have
led to a proliferation of task-specific fine-tuned models, which typically can only
perform a single task and do not benefit from one another. Recently, model merging
techniques have emerged as a solution to combine multiple task-specific models
into a single multitask model without performing additional training. However,
existing merging methods often ignore the interference between parameters of
different models, resulting in large performance drops when merging multiple
models. In this paper, we demonstrate that prior merging techniques inadvertently
lose valuable information due to two major sources of interference: (a) interfer-
ence due to redundant parameter values and (b) disagreement on the sign of a
given parameter’s values across models. To address this, we propose our method,
TRIM, ELECT SIGN & MERGE (TIES-MERGING), which introduces three novel
steps when merging models: (1) resetting parameters that only changed a small
amount during fine-tuning, (2) resolving sign conflicts, and (3) merging only the
parameters that are in alignment with the final agreed-upon sign. We find that
TIES-MERGING outperforms several existing methods in diverse settings covering
a range of modalities, domains, number of tasks, model sizes, architectures, and
fine-tuning settings. We further analyze the impact of different types of interference
on model parameters, and highlight the importance of resolving sign interference.1

1

Introduction

Pre-trained models (PTMs) have become widespread in many real-world applications [91, 6]. Using
PTMs typically involves fine-tuning them to specialize on a specific task [69, 12], which can lead to
improved performance with less task-specific labeled data. These benefits have resulted in the release
of thousands of finetuned checkpoints [81] derived from popular PTMs such as ViT [14] for vision
and T5 [58] for language. However, having a separate fine-tuned model for each task has various
drawbacks: (1) for each new application, a separate model has to be stored and deployed [17, 89], and
(2) models trained in isolation cannot leverage information from related tasks to improve in-domain
performance or out-of-domain generalization [66, 58, 75]. Multitask learning [66, 57] could address
these concerns but requires costly training and simultaneous access to all tasks [17]. Moreover, it can
be complex and resource-intensive to determine how best to mix datasets to ensure that multitask
training is beneficial for all tasks [55, 54, 80, 52, 2, 17].

1Our code is available at https://github.com/prateeky2806/ties-merging

37th Conference on Neural Information Processing Systems (NeurIPS 2023).

 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 1: A depiction of the steps involved in TIES-MERGING. We visualize each parameter in
a model as a square. The arrows depict the update (task vector, τ ) to a parameter produced by
fine-tuning on different tasks (coded by colors), with direction denoting sign and length denoting
magnitude. We first trim the task vector values based on their magnitude, then we elect the sign for
each parameter (γm, green vector containing +1 or −1) by resolving sign conflicts. Finally, we pick
only the values that align with the elected sign and take their mean as the final parameter value.

Recently, a growing body of research has focused on model merging [40]. One application of merging
involves combining multiple task-specific models into a single multitask model without performing
additional training. Previous works merge models by summing the individual model weights with
different weighting schemes, either via a simple average [9, 28, 83], via more sophisticated means
that incorporate parameter importance [45] or account for permutation invariances [1, 31, 70, 74, 42].
Combining fine-tuned models in this way can be seen as adding together task vectors [29] that are
computed by subtracting the pre-trained model’s parameter values from those of the fine-tuned model.

While weighted averaging of model parameters has
proven effective for merging, all of these methods
ignore the possibility that values may interfere across
models, thereby harming the performance of the
merged model. In this paper, we first demonstrate
that interference can stem from two major causes
(see Fig. 2), both of which can reduce parameter
magnitudes in the merged model and eliminate sub-
tle distinctions among values: (1) INTERFERENCE
FR