Gender Bias in Coreference Resolution:
Evaluation and Debiasing Methods

Jieyu Zhao§

Tianlu Wang†

Mark Yatskar‡

Vicente Ordonez†

Kai-Wei Chang§

§University of California, Los Angeles
† University of Virginia

{jyzhao, kwchang}@cs.ucla.edu

{tw8bc, vicente}@virginia.edu

‡Allen Institute for Artiﬁcial Intelligence

marky@allenai.org

8
1
0
2

r
p
A
8
1

]
L
C
.
s
c
[

1
v
6
7
8
6
0
.
4
0
8
1
:
v
i
X
r
a

Abstract

We introduce a new benchmark, WinoBias, for
coreference resolution focused on gender bias.
Our corpus contains Winograd-schema style
sentences with entities corresponding to peo-
ple referred by their occupation (e.g. the nurse,
the doctor, the carpenter). We demonstrate
that a rule-based, a feature-rich, and a neu-
ral coreference system all link gendered pro-
nouns to pro-stereotypical entities with higher
accuracy than anti-stereotypical entities, by
an average difference of 21.1 in F1 score.
Finally, we demonstrate a data-augmentation
approach that,
in combination with exist-
ing word-embedding debiasing techniques, re-
moves the bias demonstrated by these sys-
tems in WinoBias without signiﬁcantly affect-
ing their performance on existing coreference
benchmark datasets. Our dataset and code are
avialable at http://winobias.org.

1

Introduction

Coreference resolution is a task aimed at identify-
ing phrases (mentions) referring to the same entity.
Various approaches, including rule-based (Raghu-
nathan et al., 2010), feature-based (Durrett and
Klein, 2013; Peng et al., 2015a), and neural-
network based (Clark and Manning, 2016; Lee
et al., 2017) have been proposed. While signiﬁ-
cant advances have been made, systems carry the
risk of relying on societal stereotypes present in
training data that could signiﬁcantly impact their
performance for some demographic groups.

In this work, we test the hypothesis that co-
reference systems exhibit gender bias by creating
a new challenge corpus, WinoBias.This dataset
follows the winograd format (Hirst, 1981; Rah-
man and Ng, 2012; Peng et al., 2015b), and con-
tains references to people using a vocabulary of
40 occupations.
It contains two types of chal-
lenge sentences that require linking gendered pro-

Figure 1: Pairs of gender balanced co-reference tests in
the WinoBias dataset. Male and female entities are marked in
solid blue and dashed orange, respectively. For each exam-
ple, the gender of the pronominal reference is irrelevant for
the co-reference decision. Systems must be able to make cor-
rect linking predictions in pro-stereotypical scenarios (solid
purple lines) and anti-stereotypical scenarios (dashed purple
lines) equally well to pass the test. Importantly, stereotypi-
cal occupations are considered based on US Department of
Labor statistics.

nouns to either male or female stereotypical occu-
pations (see the illustrative examples in Figure 1).
None of the examples can be disambiguated by
the gender of the pronoun but this cue can poten-
tially distract the model. We consider a system
to be gender biased if it links pronouns to occu-
pations dominated by the gender of the pronoun
(pro-stereotyped condition) more accurately than
occupations not dominated by the gender of the
pronoun (anti-stereotyped condition). The corpus
can be used to certify a system has gender bias.1

We use three different systems as prototypi-
the Stanford Deterministic Coref-
the

cal examples:
erence System (Raghunathan et al., 2010),

1Note that the counter argument (i.e., systems are gender

bias free) may not hold.

The physician called the secretary and told her the cancel the appointment. The secretary called the physician and told him about a new patient. The secretary called the physician and told her about a new patient.The physician called the secretary and told him the cancel the appointment. Type 2The physician hired the secretary because she was highly recommended.The physician hired the secretary because he was highly recommended.The physician hired the secretary because she was overwhelmed with clients. Type 1The physician hired the secretary because he was overwhelmed with clients.  
 
 
 
 
 
Berkeley Coreference Resolution System (Durrett
and Klein, 2013) and the current best published
system: the UW End-to-end Neural Coreference
Resolution System (Lee et al., 2017). Despite
qualitatively different approaches, all systems ex-
hibit gender bias, showing an average difference in
performance between pro-stereotypical and anti-
stereotyped conditions of 21.1 in F1 score. Finally
we show that given sufﬁciently strong alternative
cues, systems can ignore their bias.

In order to study the source of this bias, we
analyze the training corpus used by these sys-
tems, Ontonotes 5.0 (Weischedel et al., 2012).2
Our analysis shows that female entities are signif-
icantly underrepresented in this corpus. To reduce
the impact of such dataset bias, we propose to gen-
erate an auxiliary dataset where all male entities
are replaced by female entities, and vi