Can a Suit of Armor Conduct Electricity?
A New Dataset for Open Book Question Answering

Todor Mihaylov‡ and Peter Clark† and Tushar Khot† and Ashish Sabharwal†

† Allen Institute for Artiﬁcial Intelligence, Seattle, WA, U.S.A.
‡ Research Training Group AIPHES & Heidelberg University, Heidelberg, Germany
{peterc,tushark,ashishs}@allenai.org, mihaylov@cl.uni-heidelberg.de

Abstract

We present a new kind of question answering
dataset, OpenBookQA, modeled after open
book exams for assessing human understand-
ing of a subject. The open book that comes
with our questions is a set of 1326 elementary
level science facts. Roughly 6000 questions
probe an understanding of these facts and their
application to novel situations. This requires
combining an open book fact (e.g., metals con-
duct electricity) with broad common knowl-
edge (e.g., a suit of armor is made of metal) ob-
tained from other sources. While existing QA
datasets over documents or knowledge bases,
being generally self-contained, focus on lin-
guistic understanding, OpenBookQA probes a
deeper understanding of both the topic—in the
context of common knowledge—and the lan-
guage it is expressed in. Human performance
on OpenBookQA is close to 92%, but many
state-of-the-art pre-trained QA methods per-
form surprisingly poorly, worse than several
simple neural baselines we develop. Our or-
acle experiments designed to circumvent the
knowledge retrieval bottleneck demonstrate
the value of both the open book and additional
facts. We leave it as a challenge to solve the
retrieval problem in this multi-hop setting and
to close the large gap to human performance.

1

Introduction

Open book exams are a common mechanism
for assessing human understanding of a subject,
where test takers are allowed free access to a rel-
evant book, study guide, or class notes when an-
swering questions. In this context, the goal is not
to evaluate memorization but a deeper understand-
ing of the material and its application to new situa-
tions (Jenkins, 1995; Landsberger, 1996). The ap-
plication, in turn, often requires combining a fact
in the book (e.g., metals conduct electricity) with
additional common knowledge the test taker is ex-

Question:
Which of these would let the most heat travel through?
A) a new pair of jeans.
B) a steel spoon in a cafeteria.
C) a cotton candy at a store.
D) a calvin klein cotton hat.

Science Fact:
Metal is a thermal conductor.

Common Knowledge:
Steel is made of metal.
Heat travels through a thermal conductor.

Figure 1: An example for a question with a given set
of choices and supporting facts.

pected to have acquired by this stage (e.g., a suit
of armor is made of metal).

Motivated by this setting, we present a new kind
of question answering dataset, OpenBookQA,1
that consists of two parts: Q, a set of 5957
multiple-choice questions, and F, a set of 1326 di-
verse facts about elementary level science. F has
three key characteristics of an ‘open book’: (a) it
forms the basis for generating Q; (b) it has been
deemed central to scientiﬁc explanations (Jansen
et al., 2018); and (c) by itself, F is generally in-
sufﬁcient to answer questions in Q. Faced with a
question q ∈ Q, a student or system S is expected
retrieve a relevant fact f ∈ F, and appeal to their
own common knowledge, KS, when applying f to
answer q.

Figure 1 provides an example. Here, metals are
thermal conductors is a core scientiﬁc fact avail-
able in F. One way to apply this fact to decide
whether a steel spoon would let the most heat
travel through is to appeal to common knowledge
that steel is metallic and heat travels through ther-
mal conductors. In general, the expected common
knowledge is relatively simple (taxonomic facts,

1The dataset and the code for the models are available at

http://data.allenai.org/OpenBookQA.

8
1
0
2

p
e
S
8

]
L
C
.
s
c
[

1
v
9
8
7
2
0
.
9
0
8
1
:
v
i
X
r
a

 
 
 
 
 
 
deﬁnitions, object properties, etc.); the difﬁculty
lies in identifying it and meaningfully combining
it with a core fact from F to answer the question.
OpenBookQA questions are challenging as they
require multi-hop reasoning with partial context
provided by F.
Speciﬁcally, unlike existing
datasets for reading comprehension (RC), answer-
ing questions on the back of a textbook (TQA),2
as well as question answering over structured
knowledge-bases (KBQA), the open book F that
comes with OpenBookQA is not self-contained.
A successful system must therefore go beyond
the typical challenges such as paraphrase match-
ing and coreference resolution, without beneﬁting
from the canonicalized and complete information
in KBQA.

Generating interesting open book questions is
a difﬁcult task. We used a multi-stage process
starting with F, using crowd-sourcing to generate
(noisy) questions based on F that probe novel sit-
uations, using an automatic ﬁlter to ensure hard-
ness for retrieval and association based systems,
using a crowd ﬁlter to ensure answerability by a
lay person, and further