1
2
0
2

g
u
A
6
1

]
L
P
.
s
c
[

1
v
2
3
7
7
0
.
8
0
1
2
:
v
i
X
r
a

Program Synthesis with Large Language Models

Jacob Austin*

Augustus Odena*

Maxwell Nye† Maarten Bosma

Henryk Michalewski

David Dohan

Ellen Jiang

Carrie Cai

Michael Terry

Quoc Le

Charles Sutton

Google Research
* denotes equal contribution
jaaustin@google.com, augustusodena@google.com

Abstract

This paper explores the limits of the current generation of large language models for program synthesis in
general purpose programming languages. We evaluate a collection of such models (with between 244M
and 137B parameters) on two new benchmarks, MBPP and MathQA-Python, in both the few-shot and
ﬁne-tuning regimes. Our benchmarks are designed to measure the ability of these models to synthesize
short Python programs from natural language descriptions. The Mostly Basic Programming Problems
(MBPP) dataset contains 974 programming tasks, designed to be solvable by entry-level programmers.
The MathQA-Python dataset, a Python version of the MathQA benchmark, contains 23914 problems that
evaluate the ability of the models to synthesize code from more complex text. On both datasets, we ﬁnd
that synthesis performance scales log-linearly with model size. Our largest models, even without ﬁnetuning
on a code dataset, can synthesize solutions to 59.6% of the problems from MBPP using few-shot learning
with a well-designed prompt. Fine-tuning on a held-out portion of the dataset improves performance by
about 10 percentage points across most model sizes. On the MathQA-Python dataset, the largest ﬁne-tuned
model achieves 83.8% accuracy. Going further, we study the model’s ability to engage in dialog about
code, incorporating human feedback to improve its solutions. We ﬁnd that natural language feedback from
a human halves the error rate compared to the model’s initial prediction. Additionally, we conduct an error
analysis to shed light on where these models fall short and what types of programs are most difﬁcult to
generate. Finally, we explore the semantic grounding of these models by ﬁne-tuning them to predict the
results of program execution. We ﬁnd that even our best models are generally unable to predict the output
of a program given a speciﬁc input.

1 Introduction

Program synthesis is a longstanding goal of artiﬁcial intelligence research [Manna and Waldinger, 1971, Waldinger
et al., 1969, Summers, 1977, Shaw et al., 1975, Pnueli and Rosner, 1989, Manna and Waldinger, 1975], dating as far
back as the 1940s and 50s [Copeland, 2012, Backus et al., 1957]. There has been a recent resurgence of interest in
techniques (both symbolic and ‘neuro-symbolic’) for synthesizing programs [Balog et al., 2017, Devlin et al., 2017,
Ellis et al., 2018, 2020, Odena et al., 2020], but these techniques have largely been applied to restricted domain-speciﬁc
languages (DSLs) [Gulwani, 2011] or to languages that are more fully featured but that nevertheless are designed
speciﬁcally with synthesis in mind [Odena and Sutton, 2020]. Modern general-purpose languages like Python or
C++ have mostly been out-of-reach as targets. This is unfortunate, because it materially restricts the set of possible
downstream applications. Synthesis methods that target problems across domains in general purpose languages have
the potential to enable new tools that beneﬁt the workﬂows of both novice and expert programmers.

Two emerging themes from the research literature point to a possible new approach for this problem (for a more detailed
review, see Section 8). First, large language models have shown impressive new abilities to generate natural language

†Max is afﬁliated with MIT, but did this work while interning at Google Research.

1

 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 1: Example programs synthesized (few-shot) by our largest model. The prompt is shown in purple, and the
model’s response in blue. The prompt also typically contains several few-shot examples in the same format, which are
not shown here.

text [Brown et al., 2020, Raffel et al., 2019] and to solve a rapidly expanding set of modeling and reasoning tasks
[Devlin et al., 2019, big-bench collaboration, 2021]. Second, over the past decade, machine learning approaches have
been applied to source code text to yield a variety of new tools to support software engineering [Allamanis et al., 2018a].
This work has included pre-trained deep models such as CuBERT [Kanade et al., 2020], CodeBERT [Feng et al., 2020],
PyMT5 [Clement et al., 2020], code2vec [Alon et al., 2019], and other T5 models trained on code [Mastropaolo et al.,
2021].

Combining these two themes raises the question of whether large language models for natural language can be brought
to bear to synthesize code in a general-purpose language. Such models emit code in ‘token-space’, and so it is not
necessary to explicitly encode the grammar of the underlying language—they learn it from data. Furthermore, these
models can be trained on large quantities of code, so they can learn ab