SCICAP: Generating Captions for Scientiﬁc Figures

Ting-Yao (Edward) Hsu, C. Lee Giles, Ting-Hao ‘Kenneth’ Huang
Pennsylvania State University
University Park, PA, USA
{txh357, clg20, txh710}@psu.edu

1
2
0
2

t
c
O
5
2

]
L
C
.
s
c
[

2
v
4
2
6
1
1
.
0
1
1
2
:
v
i
X
r
a

Abstract

Researchers use ﬁgures to communicate rich,
complex information in scientiﬁc papers. The
captions of these ﬁgures are critical to convey-
ing effective messages. However, low-quality
ﬁgure captions commonly occur in scientiﬁc
articles and may decrease understanding.
In
this paper, we propose an end-to-end neural
framework to automatically generate informa-
tive, high-quality captions for scientiﬁc ﬁgures.
To this end, we introduce SCICAP,1 a large-
scale ﬁgure-caption dataset based on computer
science arXiv papers published between 2010
and 2020. After pre-processing – including
ﬁgure-type classiﬁcation, sub-ﬁgure identiﬁca-
tion, text normalization, and caption text selec-
tion – SCICAP contained more than two mil-
lion ﬁgures extracted from over 290,000 pa-
pers. We then established baseline models that
caption graph plots, the dominant (19.2%) ﬁg-
ure type. The experimental results showed
both opportunities and steep challenges of gen-
erating captions for scientiﬁc ﬁgures.

1

Introduction

Researchers use ﬁgures to explain complex con-
cepts or show critical results. In scholarly articles,
ﬁgure captions are critical to get the message across
effectively. Ones that are too generic (e.g., “Re-
sults of Experiment A.”) or poorly written (e.g.,
“Relations between X and Y.”) represent missed op-
portunities to explain scientiﬁc narratives to read-
ers. Unfortunately, such low-quality captions still
occur in published scientiﬁc articles. This paper
aims to develop automatic ﬁgure-captioning mod-
els that generate high-quality captions for ﬁgures
and charts in scientiﬁc papers (Figure 1).

Our motivation is two-fold. First, we aim to help
researchers write better captions for the ﬁgures and
charts in their papers. Automatic caption models
trained on informative, high-quality captions can

Figure 1: The ﬁgure captioning model takes a scientiﬁc
ﬁgure (e.g., a graph plot) as input and generate captions
that describes the ﬁgure.

suggest better captions. Second, the proposed tech-
nology can make scientiﬁc charts and ﬁgures more
accessible to blind or visually impaired readers. Re-
searchers have developed technologies to assist the
blind to navigate graphical content, such as data
visualization charts (Swaminathan et al., 2014),
printed physical maps (Swaminathan et al., 2016),
3D chemical diagrams (Bernareggi et al., 2019),
and images on social media (Wu et al., 2017; Salis-
bury et al., 2017). However, only a few prior works
focused on scientiﬁc ﬁgures. An image-captioning
model specialized for scientiﬁc ﬁgures can improve
the narration of scientiﬁc articles for the blind even
when the original caption is unhelpful.

To this end, we introduce SCICAP, a large-scale
image-captioning dataset that contains real-world
scientiﬁc ﬁgures and captions. SCICAP was con-
structed using computer science papers collected
and released by arXiv. With pre-processing com-
plete – including ﬁgure-type classiﬁcation, sub-
ﬁgure identiﬁcation, text normalization, and cap-
tion text selection – SCICAP contained more than
two million ﬁgures extracted from over 290,000
papers. We then established baseline models that
caption graph plots, the dominant (19.2%) ﬁgure
type. The experimental results showed both excit-
ing opportunities and steep challenges of generat-
ing captions for scientiﬁc ﬁgures.

2 Related Work

1SCICAP is available at: https://github.com/

tingyaohsu/SciCap

One of the few prior works attempting to caption
scientiﬁc ﬁgures was by Chen et al. (2019a; 2019b;

 
 
 
 
 
 
2020). They created FigCAP, a caption-ﬁgure pair
corpus where the ﬁgures are synthesized, and used
an LSTM model with an attention mechanism to
produce captions. FigCAP was built on research
that aimed to analyze ﬁgure content automatically,
including Figure-Seer (Siegel et al., 2016), Fig-
ureQA (Kahou et al., 2017), and DVQA (Kaﬂe
et al., 2018). DVQA and FigureQA were both
made using synthetic ﬁgures; FigureSeer contained
over 60,000 ﬁgures across seven ﬁgure types ex-
tracted from research papers. Meanwhile, Qian et
al. (2020) proposed a set of “caption units” (such
as Title, Label Name, Min/Max, etc.)
that are
important to include in a caption of scientiﬁc ﬁg-
ures; they created a model, FigJAM, to produce
such units (Qian et al., 2021). Also relevant is
the “data-to-caption” work, which takes a chart’s
source data table and metadata as input to generate
a caption (Obeid and Hoque, 2020; Spreaﬁco and
Carenini, 2020). These models generate captions
based on data tables, not the ﬁgures.

Differences Between Synthetic and Real-World
Captions. Most prior work has tried to generate
captions for scientiﬁc ﬁgures using synthetic im-
ages and texts (Chen et al., 2019a,b, 20