0
2
0
2

r
a

M
1

]
L
C
.
s
c
[

4
v
8
0
1
1
0
.
0
1
9
1
:
v
i
X
r
a

DistilBERT, a distilled version of BERT: smaller,
faster, cheaper and lighter

Victor SANH, Lysandre DEBUT, Julien CHAUMOND, Thomas WOLF
Hugging Face
{victor,lysandre,julien,thomas}@huggingface.co

Abstract

As Transfer Learning from large-scale pre-trained models becomes more prevalent
in Natural Language Processing (NLP), operating these large models in on-the-
edge and/or under constrained computational training or inference budgets remains
challenging. In this work, we propose a method to pre-train a smaller general-
purpose language representation model, called DistilBERT, which can then be ﬁne-
tuned with good performances on a wide range of tasks like its larger counterparts.
While most prior work investigated the use of distillation for building task-speciﬁc
models, we leverage knowledge distillation during the pre-training phase and show
that it is possible to reduce the size of a BERT model by 40%, while retaining 97%
of its language understanding capabilities and being 60% faster. To leverage the
inductive biases learned by larger models during pre-training, we introduce a triple
loss combining language modeling, distillation and cosine-distance losses. Our
smaller, faster and lighter model is cheaper to pre-train and we demonstrate its
capabilities for on-device computations in a proof-of-concept experiment and a
comparative on-device study.

1

Introduction

The last two years have seen the rise
of Transfer Learning approaches in
Natural Language Processing (NLP)
with large-scale pre-trained language
models becoming a basic tool in
many NLP tasks [Devlin et al., 2018,
Radford et al., 2019, Liu et al., 2019].
While these models lead to signiﬁ-
cant improvement, they often have
several hundred million parameters
and current research1 on pre-trained
models indicates that training even
larger models still leads to better per-
formances on downstream tasks.

Figure 1: Parameter counts of several recently released
pretrained language models.

The trend toward bigger models
raises several concerns. First is the
environmental cost of exponentially scaling these models’ computational requirements as mentioned
in Schwartz et al. [2019], Strubell et al. [2019]. Second, while operating these models on-device
in real-time has the potential to enable novel and interesting language processing applications, the
growing computational and memory requirements of these models may hamper wide adoption.

1See for instance the recently released MegatronLM (https://nv-adlr.github.io/MegatronLM)

EMC^2: 5th Edition Co-located with NeurIPS’19

 
 
 
 
 
 
In this paper, we show that it is possible to reach similar performances on many downstream-tasks
using much smaller language models pre-trained with knowledge distillation, resulting in models
that are lighter and faster at inference time, while also requiring a smaller computational training
budget. Our general-purpose pre-trained models can be ﬁne-tuned with good performances on several
downstream tasks, keeping the ﬂexibility of larger models. We also show that our compressed models
are small enough to run on the edge, e.g. on mobile devices.

Using a triple loss, we show that a 40% smaller Transformer (Vaswani et al. [2017]) pre-trained
through distillation via the supervision of a bigger Transformer language model can achieve similar
performance on a variety of downstream tasks, while being 60% faster at inference time. Further
ablation studies indicate that all the components of the triple loss are important for best performances.
We have made the trained weights available along with the training code in the Transformers2
library from HuggingFace [Wolf et al., 2019].

2 Knowledge distillation

Knowledge distillation [Bucila et al., 2006, Hinton et al., 2015] is a compression technique in which
a compact model - the student - is trained to reproduce the behaviour of a larger model - the teacher -
or an ensemble of models.

In supervised learning, a classiﬁcation model is generally trained to predict an instance class by
maximizing the estimated probability of gold labels. A standard training objective thus involves
minimizing the cross-entropy between the model’s predicted distribution and the one-hot empirical
distribution of training labels. A model performing well on the training set will predict an output
distribution with high probability on the correct class and with near-zero probabilities on other
classes. But some of these "near-zero" probabilities are larger than others and reﬂect, in part, the
generalization capabilities of the model and how well it will perform on the test set3.

Training loss The student is trained with a distillation loss over the soft target probabilities of
the teacher: Lce = (cid:80)
i ti ∗ log(si) where ti (resp. si) is a probability estimated by the teacher
(resp. the student). This objective results in a rich training signal by leveraging the full teacher
