2
2
0
2

n
a
J

0
3

]
L
C
.
s
c
[

2
v
6
8
6
0
1
.
9
0
1
2
:
v
i
X
r
a

Preprint

SCALE EFFICIENTLY: INSIGHTS FROM PRE-TRAINING
AND FINE-TUNING TRANSFORMERS

Yi Tay∗, Mostafa Dehghani∗, Jinfeng Rao, William Fedus, Samira Abnar, Hyung Won Chung,
Sharan Narang, Dani Yogatama†, Ashish Vaswani, Donald Metzler
Google Research & DeepMind†
{yitay,dehghani}@google.com

ABSTRACT

There remain many open questions pertaining to the scaling behaviour of Trans-
former architectures. These scaling decisions and ﬁndings can be critical, as
training runs often come with an associated computational cost which have both
ﬁnancial and/or environmental impact. The goal of this paper is to present scaling
insights from pretraining and ﬁnetuning Transformers. While Kaplan et al. (2020)
presents a comprehensive study of the scaling behaviour of Transformer language
models, the scope is only on the upstream (pretraining) loss. Therefore, it is still
unclear if these set of ﬁndings transfer to downstream task within the context of
the pretrain-ﬁnetune paradigm. The key ﬁndings of this paper are as follows: (1)
we show that aside from only the model size, model shape matters for downstream
ﬁne-tuning, (2) scaling protocols operate differently at different compute regions,
(3) widely adopted T5-base and T5-large sizes are Pareto-inefﬁcient. To this end,
we present improved scaling protocols whereby our redesigned models achieve
similar downstream ﬁne-tuning quality while having 50% fewer parameters and
training 40% faster compared to the widely adopted T5-base model. We publicly
release over 100 pretrained checkpoints of different T5 conﬁgurations to facilitate
future research and analysis.

1

INTRODUCTION

Training Transformers incurs both ﬁnancial and environmental costs (Schwartz et al., 2019; Patterson
et al., 2021). To this end, researchers and practitioners often have to work around ﬁxed compute
budgets and ﬁgure out the best ways to train their models. In lieu of the rising computation demand
for training state-of-the-art Transformer (Vaswani et al., 2017; Devlin et al., 2018; Raffel et al., 2019;
Brown et al., 2020; Fedus et al., 2021) models, the goal of this paper is to present insights and
lessons from scaling Transformers and making them efﬁcient and effective for transfer learning on
downstream tasks.

Despite the insights offered in scaling laws research (Kaplan et al., 2020; Hernandez et al., 2021)
there remain unresolved questions: Should one follow ﬁxed scaling ratios? If not, should one scale by
depth? Or by width? Will scaling experiments on upstream pre-training generalize for downstream
transfer? Do scaling protocols for small models generalize to larger models? Are scaling behaviours
similar in all compute regions? We hope the insights presented in this paper can be useful to both
practitioners and researchers in informing their scaling decisions.

Neural scaling laws (Kaplan et al., 2020) is a common resource that many look to for advice on
scaling Transformer architectures. However, this paper limited its scope to an exhaustive study of
upstream cross entropy on language modeling tasks. It is furthermore unclear if ﬁndings from (Kaplan
et al., 2020) will transfer to downstream applications. Speciﬁcally, Kaplan et al. (2020) proposed that
the performance of a Transformer language model strongly depends on model size and only weakly
on its shape. They also argue that many model conﬁgurations with the same number of parameters
perform similarly regardless of architectural details. Our work empirically conﬁrms this on upstream
training but ﬁnds a distinct discrepancy when considering practical downstream performance – a key
insight that we believe is highly important.

∗Equal contribution

1

 
 
 
 
 
 
Preprint

To this end, we conduct extensive experiments involving pre-training and ﬁne-tuning over 200
transformer conﬁgurations ranging from 5M to 30B parameters. To the best of our knowledge, this is
the largest empirical study of practical scaling of transformer to date that considers both upstream
and practical downstream transfer. While there have been many proposed scaling protocols for
ConvNets (Tan and Le, 2019; Bello et al., 2021), there is still limited advice on scaling of transformer
architectures, apart from (Kaplan et al., 2020; Li et al., 2020). Hence, the key goal of this paper is to
distill our experiences and insights with scaling Transformer architectures and share them with the
broader community.

Contributions The overall ﬁndings and insights of the paper can be summarized as follows:

• We ﬁnd that scaling laws may differ in upstream and downstream setups. Speciﬁcally,
contrary to Kaplan et al. (2020), we ﬁnd that downstream performance strongly depends
on shape and not only on model size. Hence, pretraining performance may not necessarily
transfer to downstream applications. (Figure 1).

• Our ﬁndings show that pre-training perplexity can often be a deceiving indicator of down-
stream qual