Pre-training image-language transformers for open-vocabulary tasks

AJ Piergiovanni
Google Research

Weicheng Kuo
Google Research

Anelia Angelova
Google Research

2
2
0
2

p
e
S
9

]

V
C
.
s
c
[

1
v
2
7
3
4
0
.
9
0
2
2
:
v
i
X
r
a

Abstract

We present a pre-training approach for vision and lan-
guage transformer models, which is based on a mixture of
diverse tasks. We explore both the use of image-text cap-
tioning data in pre-training, which does not need additional
supervision, as well as object-aware strategies to pre-train
the model. We evaluate the method on a number of text-
generative vision+language tasks, such as Visual Question
Answering, visual entailment and captioning, and demon-
strate large gains over standard pre-training methods.

1. Introduction

Using vision and text transformers jointly to learn vision
language interactions is an important problem, with appli-
cations ranging from captioning, retrieval, Visual Question
Answering (VQA), and others. Training these models is an
open area of research, where one major unknown is what
pre-training mechanisms to use. Existing works, such as
CLIP or ALIGN [5, 10], use large-scale web-based datasets
of image-text pairs, and apply contrastive loss during pre-
training. This data is unlabeled and often noisy, and the col-
lected text descriptions refer to prominent objects in the im-
age. Using additionally labeled data, which provides valu-
able semantic information, has been under-explored. For
example, OpenImages [6] contains image-level and local-
ization (box-level) labels. This data provides less noisy la-
beling for a large variety of objects in images, and can yield
cleaner signals and better data efﬁciency during training.

A closely coupled question is what kind of pre-training
tasks are most suitable for image-text transformer models.
Some approaches use versions of the contrastive loss, as
mentioned above [5, 10], which is a powerful technique
but less suitable for text-generative problems such as image
captioning or open-vocabulary VQA. Other approaches bor-
row losses from the text domain applied to image-language,
such as captioning [12] or masking losses, e.g., MLM [8].
These methods can be widely applied as they do not require
extra supervision, but might be inefﬁcient or even inade-
quate at extracting semantic information. Some of these
have been extended to focus on objects, typically by using

off-the-shelf object detection [7, 8, 16], which clearly limits
applicability to a small set of categories.

Furthermore, for VQA tasks, most prior works focus
on a classiﬁcation problem, using a limited set of answers
(e.g., 3000 for VQA2.0) or by a ﬁxed set of pre-deﬁned
outputs. However, a generalized system will be able to
output free-form text for any question. Similarly, caption-
ing tasks are open-vocabulary by deﬁnition. We focus on
these vision-language tasks in the open-vocabulary setting,
although they are more challenging. This lets us investi-
gate the impact of different pre-training tasks for the entire
model, by evaluating the generated text.

We propose a pre-training approach as a mixture of va-
riety of pre-training tasks, on both VQA and captioning.
We ﬁnd that combining multiple cross-modal and language-
based object-aware tasks is beneﬁcial. Our results show
large improvements over previous pre-training methods.

2. Related Works

Standard methods for image-text models use an image
encoder to obtain vision features, then a Transformer [15] to
process the combined image and language tokens [3, 8, 17].
We use a similar architecture. Where we differ from the pre-
vious works is in the diversity of the pre-training sources.
Rather than using large image-text data [5,10] or pre-trained
object detectors [7, 8, 16], we use image-text tasks gener-
ated from image or box level labels. We work with open-
vocabulary text generation, which is harder.
3. Model

In this work, we build an image-language transformer
model which uses both an image and a text sequence in-
put and outputs a generated text sequence. We use this
model for a number of vision language tasks, speciﬁ-
cally VQA, visual entailment and captioning, and, as men-
tioned, with free-form open-vocabulary generated text out-
puts. Our model follows the standard encoder-decoder
transformer style. We use convolutional layers to extract
image patches [14] and use those as the vision tokens. We
use a T5 [11] model to obtain text features from the lan-
guage model and to generate the output text. The model

 
 
 
 
 
 
is trained to generate text using a cross-entropy loss. Our
model is derived from T5-base and has 330M parameters.

4. Pre-training Approach

We focus on creating pre-training tasks and using a
collection of tasks in a ‘pre-training mixture’. The tasks
are diverse in several dimensions: 1) amount of supervi-
sion/labels and accompanying noise and 2) the task the
model is trying to solve. We consider two types of tasks:
Cross-Modal Image-Text pre-traini