LLaMA: Open and Efﬁcient Foundation Language Models

Hugo Touvron∗, Thibaut Lavril∗, Gautier Izacard∗, Xavier Martinet
Marie-Anne Lachaux, Timothee Lacroix, Baptiste Rozière, Naman Goyal
Eric Hambro, Faisal Azhar, Aurelien Rodriguez, Armand Joulin
Edouard Grave∗, Guillaume Lample∗

Meta AI

Abstract

We introduce LLaMA, a collection of founda-
tion language models ranging from 7B to 65B
parameters. We train our models on trillions
of tokens, and show that it is possible to train
state-of-the-art models using publicly avail-
able datasets exclusively, without resorting
to proprietary and inaccessible datasets.
In
particular, LLaMA-13B outperforms GPT-3
(175B) on most benchmarks, and LLaMA-
65B is competitive with the best models,
Chinchilla-70B and PaLM-540B. We release
all our models to the research community1.

1

Introduction

Large Languages Models (LLMs) trained on mas-
sive corpora of texts have shown their ability to per-
form new tasks from textual instructions or from a
few examples (Brown et al., 2020). These few-shot
properties ﬁrst appeared when scaling models to a
sufﬁcient size (Kaplan et al., 2020), resulting in a
line of work that focuses on further scaling these
models (Chowdhery et al., 2022; Rae et al., 2021).
These efforts are based on the assumption that
more parameters will lead to better performance.
However, recent work from Hoffmann et al. (2022)
shows that, for a given compute budget, the best
performances are not achieved by the largest mod-
els, but by smaller models trained on more data.

The objective of the scaling laws from Hoff-
mann et al. (2022) is to determine how to best
scale the dataset and model sizes for a particular
training compute budget. However, this objective
disregards the inference budget, which becomes
critical when serving a language model at scale.
In this context, given a target level of performance,
the preferred model is not the fastest to train but the
fastest at inference, and although it may be cheaper
to train a large model to reach a certain level of

∗ Equal contribution. Correspondence: {htouvron,

thibautlav,gizacard,egrave,glample}@meta.com
1https://github.com/facebookresearch/llama

performance, a smaller one trained longer will
ultimately be cheaper at inference. For instance,
although Hoffmann et al. (2022) recommends
training a 10B model on 200B tokens, we ﬁnd
that the performance of a 7B model continues to
improve even after 1T tokens.

The focus of this work is to train a series of
language models that achieve the best possible per-
formance at various inference budgets, by training
on more tokens than what is typically used. The
resulting models, called LLaMA, ranges from 7B
to 65B parameters with competitive performance
compared to the best existing LLMs. For instance,
LLaMA-13B outperforms GPT-3 on most bench-
marks, despite being 10× smaller. We believe that
this model will help democratize the access and
study of LLMs, since it can be run on a single GPU.
At the higher-end of the scale, our 65B-parameter
model is also competitive with the best large lan-
guage models such as Chinchilla or PaLM-540B.

Unlike Chinchilla, PaLM, or GPT-3, we only
use publicly available data, making our work com-
patible with open-sourcing, while most existing
models rely on data which is either not publicly
available or undocumented (e.g. “Books – 2TB” or
“Social media conversations”). There exist some
exceptions, notably OPT (Zhang et al., 2022),
GPT-NeoX (Black et al., 2022), BLOOM (Scao
et al., 2022) and GLM (Zeng et al., 2022), but none
that are competitive with PaLM-62B or Chinchilla.

In the rest of this paper, we present an overview
of the modiﬁcations we made to the transformer
architecture (Vaswani et al., 2017), as well as our
training method. We then report the performance of
our models and compare with others LLMs on a set
of standard benchmarks. Finally, we expose some
of the biases and toxicity encoded in our models,
using some of the most recent benchmarks from
the responsible AI community.

3
2
0
2

b
e
F
7
2

]
L
C
.
s
c
[

1
v
1
7
9
3
1
.
2
0
3
2
:
v
i
X
r
a

 
 
 
 
 
 
2 Approach

Our training approach is similar to the methods
described in previous work (Brown et al., 2020;
Chowdhery et al., 2022), and is inspired by the
Chinchilla scaling laws (Hoffmann et al., 2022).
We train large transformers on a large quantity of
textual data using a standard optimizer.

2.1 Pre-training Data

Our training dataset is a mixture of several sources,
reported in Table 1, that cover a diverse set of do-
mains. For the most part, we reuse data sources
that have been leveraged to train other LLMs, with
the restriction of only using data that is publicly
available, and compatible with open sourcing. This
leads to the following mixture of data and the per-
centage they represent in the training set:

English CommonCrawl [67%]. We preprocess
ﬁve CommonCrawl dumps, ranging from 2017
to 2020, with the CCNet pipeline (Wenzek et al.,
2020). This process dedu