PIQA: Reasoning about Physical Commonsense in Natural Language

Yonatan Bisk1,2,3,4

Rowan Zellers1,4
1Allen Institute for Artiﬁcial Intelligence

Ronan Le Bras1
2Microsoft Research AI

Jianfeng Gao2

Yejin Choi1,4

3Carnegie Mellon University

4Paul G. Allen School for Computer Science and Engineering, University of Washington
http://yonatanbisk.com/piqa

9
1
0
2

v
o
N
6
2

]
L
C
.
s
c
[

1
v
1
4
6
1
1
.
1
1
9
1
:
v
i
X
r
a

Abstract

To apply eyeshadow without a brush, should I use a cotton
swab or a toothpick? Questions requiring this kind of phys-
ical commonsense pose a challenge to today’s natural lan-
guage understanding systems. While recent pretrained mod-
els (such as BERT) have made progress on question answer-
ing over more abstract domains – such as news articles and
encyclopedia entries, where text is plentiful – in more physi-
cal domains, text is inherently limited due to reporting bias.
Can AI systems learn to reliably answer physical common-
sense questions without experiencing the physical world?
In this paper, we introduce the task of physical commonsense
reasoning and a corresponding benchmark dataset Physical
Interaction: Question Answering or PIQA
. Though hu-
mans ﬁnd the dataset easy (95% accuracy), large pretrained
models struggle (∼77%). We provide analysis about the di-
mensions of knowledge that existing models lack, which of-
fers signiﬁcant opportunities for future research.

Introduction
Before children learn language, they already start forming
categories and concepts based on the physical properties of
objects around them (Hespos and Spelke 2004). This model
of the world grows richer as they learn to speak, but al-
ready captures physical commonsense knowledge about ev-
eryday objects: their physical properties, affordances, and
how they can be manipulated. This knowledge is critical
for day-to-day human life, including tasks such as problem
solving (what can I use as a pillow when camping?) and
expressing needs and desires (bring me a harder pillow).
Likewise, we hypothesize that modeling physical common-
sense knowledge is a major challenge on the road to true AI-
completeness, including robots that interact with the world
and understand natural language.

Much of physical commonsense can be expressed in lan-
guage, as the versatility of everyday objects and common
concepts eludes other label schemes. However, due to is-
sues of reporting bias, these commonsense properties - facts
like ‘it is a bad idea to apply eyeshadow with a toothpick’
are rarely directly reported. Although much recent progress

Copyright c(cid:13) 2020, Association for the Advancement of Artiﬁcial
Intelligence (www.aaai.org). All rights reserved.

Figure 1: PIQA : Given a physical goal expressed in nat-
ural language, like ‘to separate egg whites...,’ a model must
choose the most sensible solution. Our dataset tests the abil-
ity of natural language understanding models to link text to
a robust intuitive-physics model of the world. Here, humans
easily pick answer a) because separating the egg requires
pulling the yolk out, while machines are easily fooled.

has been made in Natural Language Processing through
a shift towards large-scale pretrained representations from
unlabeled text (Radford et al. 2018; Devlin et al. 2019;
Liu et al. 2019), the bulk of the success of this paradigm
has been on core abstract tasks and domains. State-of-the-
art models can reliably answer questions given an encyclo-
pedia article (Rajpurkar et al. 2016) or recognize named en-
tities (Tjong Kim Sang and De Meulder 2003), but it is not
clear whether they can robustly answer questions that re-
quire physical commonsense knowledge.

To study this question and begin bridging the represen-
tational gap, we introduce Physical Interaction: Question
Answering, or PIQA
to evaluate language represen-
tations on their knowledge of physical commonsense. We
focus on everyday situations with a preference for atypi-
cal solutions. Our dataset is inspired by instructables.com,
which provides users with instructions on how to build, craft,

a.Squeezethe water bottle and press it against the yolk. Release, which creates suction and lifts the yolk.To separate egg whites from the yolkusing a water bottle, you should…b.Placethe water bottle and press it against the yolk. Keep pushing,which creates suction and lifts the yolk.???a! 
 
 
 
 
 
a. Shape, Material, and Purpose

b. Commonsense Convenience

[Goal] Make an outdoor pillow
[Sol1] Blow into a tin can and tie with rubber band
[Sol2] Blow into a trash bag and tie with rubber band

[Goal] To make a hard shelled taco,
[Sol1] put seasoned beef, cheese, and lettuce onto the hard

shell.

[Sol2] put seasoned beef, cheese, and lettuce into the hard

shell.

(cid:56)
(cid:52)

(cid:56)

(cid:52)

[Goal] How do I ﬁnd something I lost on the carpet?
[Sol1] Put a solid seal on the end of your vacuum and turn it

(cid:56)

on.

[Sol2] Put a hair net on the end of your vacuum and turn it on. (cid