Sigmoid Loss for Language Image Pre-Training

Xiaohua Zhai(cid:63) Basil Mustafa Alexander Kolesnikov Lucas Beyer(cid:63)
Google DeepMind, Z¨urich, Switzerland
{xzhai, basilm, akolesnikov, lbeyer}@google.com

Abstract

We propose a simple pairwise Sigmoid loss
for
Language-Image Pre-training (SigLIP). Unlike standard
contrastive learning with softmax normalization, the sig-
moid loss operates solely on image-text pairs and does not
require a global view of the pairwise similarities for nor-
malization. The sigmoid loss simultaneously allows fur-
ther scaling up the batch size, while also performing bet-
ter at smaller batch sizes. Combined with Locked-image
Tuning, with only four TPUv4 chips, we train a SigLiT
model that achieves 84.5% ImageNet zero-shot accuracy
in two days. The disentanglement of the batch size from
the loss further allows us to study the impact of exam-
ples vs pairs and negative to positive ratio. Finally, we
push the batch size to the extreme, up to one million, and
ﬁnd that the beneﬁts of growing batch size quickly dimin-
ish, with a more reasonable batch size of 32 k being suf-
ﬁcient. We release our models at https://github.
com/google-research/big_vision and hope our
research motivates further explorations in improving the
quality and efﬁciency of language-image pre-training.

1. Introduction

Contrastive pre-training using weak supervision from
image-text pairs found on the web is becoming the go-to
method for obtaining generic computer vision backbones,
slowly replacing pre-training on large labelled multi-class
datasets. The high-level idea is to simultaneously learn
an aligned representation space for images and texts using
paired data. Seminal works CLIP [36] and ALIGN [23] es-
tablished the viability of this approach at a large scale, and
following their success, many large image-text datasets be-
came available privately [59, 13, 21, 49] and publicly [40,
6, 15, 7, 41].

The standard recipe to pre-train such models leverages
the image-text contrastive objective. It aligns the image and

(cid:63)equal contribution

Table 1: SigLiT and SigLIP results. Sigmoid loss is mem-
ory efﬁcient, allows larger batch sizes (BS) that unlocks
language image pre-training with a small number of chips.
SigLiT model with a frozen public
B/8 checkpoint [42],
trained on the LiT image-text dataset [59] using four TPU-
v4 chips for one day, achieves 79.7% 0-shot accuracy on
ImageNet. The same setup with a g/14 checkpoint [58]
leads to 84.5% accuracy, trained for two days. With a pub-
lic unlocked
B/16 image checkpoint [42], trained on the
WebLI dataset [13], SigLIP achieves 71.0% 0-shot accu-
racy using 16 TPU-v4 chips for three days. The last two
rows show results with randomly initialized models.

Image Text

BS #TPUv4 Days

INet-0

SigLiT
SigLiT

SigLIP
SigLIP
SigLIP

B/8
g/14

B/16
B/16
B/16

L∗
L

32 k
20 k

4
4

1
2

79.8
84.5

16 k
32 k
32 k

B
B
B
∗ We use a variant of the L model with 12 layers.

71.0
72.1
73.4

16
32
32

3
2
5

text embeddings for matching (positive) image-text pairs
while making sure that unrelated (negative) image-text pairs
are dissimilar in the embedding space. This is achieved via a
batch-level softmax-based contrastive loss, applied twice to
normalize the pairwise similarity scores across all images,
then all texts. A naive implementation of the softmax is
numerically unstable; it is usually stabilized by subtracting
the maximum input value before applying the softmax [18],
which requires another pass over the full batch.

In this paper, we propose a simpler alternative: the sig-
moid loss. It does not require any operation across the full
batch and hence greatly simpliﬁes the distributed loss im-
plementation and boosts efﬁciency. Additionally, it con-
ceptually decouples the batch size from the deﬁnition of
the task. We compare the proposed sigmoid loss with the
standard softmax loss across multiple setups.
In partic-
ular, we investigate sigmoid-based loss with two promi-

1

nent approaches for image-text learning: CLIP [36] and
LiT [59], which we call sigmoid language image pre-
training (SigLIP) and sigmoid LiT (SigLiT), respectively.
We ﬁnd that the sigmoid loss performs signiﬁcantly better
than the softmax loss when the batch size is smaller than
16 k. As the train batch size grows, the gap closes. Impor-
tantly, the sigmoid loss is symmetric, requires just a single
pass, and a typical implementation requires less memory
than the softmax loss. This enables successful training of a
SigLiT model at a batch size of one million. However, we
ﬁnd that the performance saturates with growing batch size,
both for softmax and sigmoid. The good news is that a rea-
sonable batch size, i.e. 32 k, is sufﬁcient for image-text pre-
training. This conclusion also holds for multilingual SigLIP
training on over 100 languages.

In Table 1, we present setups for image-text pre-training
that require a moderate amount of TPUv4 chips for training.
SigLiT is surprisingly efﬁcient, 