1
2
0
2

n
u
J

3

]

V
C
.
s
c
[

2
v
9
2
9
1
1
.
0
1
0
2
:
v
i
X
r
a

Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2021

AN IMAGE IS WORTH 16X16 WORDS:
TRANSFORMERS FOR IMAGE RECOGNITION AT SCALE

Alexey Dosovitskiy∗,†, Lucas Beyer∗, Alexander Kolesnikov∗, Dirk Weissenborn∗,
Xiaohua Zhai∗, Thomas Unterthiner, Mostafa Dehghani, Matthias Minderer,
Georg Heigold, Sylvain Gelly, Jakob Uszkoreit, Neil Houlsby∗,†
∗equal technical contribution, †equal advising
Google Research, Brain Team
{adosovitskiy, neilhoulsby}@google.com

ABSTRACT

While the Transformer architecture has become the de-facto standard for natural
language processing tasks, its applications to computer vision remain limited. In
vision, attention is either applied in conjunction with convolutional networks, or
used to replace certain components of convolutional networks while keeping their
overall structure in place. We show that this reliance on CNNs is not necessary
and a pure transformer applied directly to sequences of image patches can perform
very well on image classiﬁcation tasks. When pre-trained on large amounts of
data and transferred to multiple mid-sized or small image recognition benchmarks
(ImageNet, CIFAR-100, VTAB, etc.), Vision Transformer (ViT) attains excellent
results compared to state-of-the-art convolutional networks while requiring sub-
stantially fewer computational resources to train.1

1

INTRODUCTION

Self-attention-based architectures, in particular Transformers (Vaswani et al., 2017), have become
the model of choice in natural language processing (NLP). The dominant approach is to pre-train on
a large text corpus and then ﬁne-tune on a smaller task-speciﬁc dataset (Devlin et al., 2019). Thanks
to Transformers’ computational efﬁciency and scalability, it has become possible to train models of
unprecedented size, with over 100B parameters (Brown et al., 2020; Lepikhin et al., 2020). With the
models and datasets growing, there is still no sign of saturating performance.

In computer vision, however, convolutional architectures remain dominant (LeCun et al., 1989;
Krizhevsky et al., 2012; He et al., 2016). Inspired by NLP successes, multiple works try combining
CNN-like architectures with self-attention (Wang et al., 2018; Carion et al., 2020), some replacing
the convolutions entirely (Ramachandran et al., 2019; Wang et al., 2020a). The latter models, while
theoretically efﬁcient, have not yet been scaled effectively on modern hardware accelerators due to
the use of specialized attention patterns. Therefore, in large-scale image recognition, classic ResNet-
like architectures are still state of the art (Mahajan et al., 2018; Xie et al., 2020; Kolesnikov et al.,
2020).

Inspired by the Transformer scaling successes in NLP, we experiment with applying a standard
Transformer directly to images, with the fewest possible modiﬁcations. To do so, we split an image
into patches and provide the sequence of linear embeddings of these patches as an input to a Trans-
former. Image patches are treated the same way as tokens (words) in an NLP application. We train
the model on image classiﬁcation in supervised fashion.

When trained on mid-sized datasets such as ImageNet without strong regularization, these mod-
els yield modest accuracies of a few percentage points below ResNets of comparable size. This
seemingly discouraging outcome may be expected: Transformers lack some of the inductive biases

1Fine-tuning

code

and

pre-trained models

are

available

at

https://github.com/

google-research/vision_transformer

1

 
 
 
 
 
 
Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2021

inherent to CNNs, such as translation equivariance and locality, and therefore do not generalize well
when trained on insufﬁcient amounts of data.

However, the picture changes if the models are trained on larger datasets (14M-300M images). We
ﬁnd that large scale training trumps inductive bias. Our Vision Transformer (ViT) attains excellent
results when pre-trained at sufﬁcient scale and transferred to tasks with fewer datapoints. When
pre-trained on the public ImageNet-21k dataset or the in-house JFT-300M dataset, ViT approaches
or beats state of the art on multiple image recognition benchmarks. In particular, the best model
reaches the accuracy of 88.55% on ImageNet, 90.72% on ImageNet-ReaL, 94.55% on CIFAR-100,
and 77.63% on the VTAB suite of 19 tasks.

2 RELATED WORK

Transformers were proposed by Vaswani et al. (2017) for machine translation, and have since be-
come the state of the art method in many NLP tasks. Large Transformer-based models are often
pre-trained on large corpora and then ﬁne-tuned for the task at hand: BERT (Devlin et al., 2019)
uses a denoising self-supervised pre-training task, while the GPT line of work uses language mod-
eling as its pre-training task (Radford et al., 2018; 2019; Brown et al., 2020).

Naive application of self-attention to images would require that each pixel attends to every other
pixel. With quadratic cost in the numb