How Can We Effectively Expand the Vocabulary of LLMs
with 0.01GB of Target Language Text?

Atsuki Yamaguchi1, Aline Villavicencio1,2 and Nikolaos Aletras1
1School of Computer Science, University of Sheffield, United Kingdom
2Department of Computer Science, Institute of Data Science and Artificial Intelligence,
University of Exeter, United Kingdom
{ayamaguchi1,a.villavicencio,n.aletras}@sheffield.ac.uk

4
2
0
2

p
e
S
6
1

]
L
C
.
s
c
[

2
v
7
7
4
1
1
.
6
0
4
2
:
v
i
X
r
a

Abstract

Large language models (LLMs) have shown
remarkable capabilities in many languages be-
yond English. Yet, LLMs require more infer-
ence steps when generating non-English text
due to their reliance on English-centric tok-
enizers and vocabulary, resulting in higher us-
age costs to non-English speakers. Vocabu-
lary expansion with target language tokens is
a widely used cross-lingual vocabulary adap-
tation approach to remedy this issue. Despite
its effectiveness in inference speedup, previ-
ous work on vocabulary expansion has focused
on high-resource settings assuming access to
a substantial amount of target language data
to effectively initialize the embeddings of the
new tokens and adapt the LLM to the target
language. However, vocabulary expansion in
low-resource settings has yet to be explored.
In this paper, we investigate vocabulary expan-
sion in low-resource settings by considering
embedding initialization methods and contin-
ual pre-training strategies. Through extensive
experiments across typologically diverse lan-
guages, tasks and models, we establish a set of
strategies to perform vocabulary expansion for
faster inference, maintaining competitive down-
stream performance to baselines with only 30K
sentences (∼0.01GB text data) from the target
language.1

1

Introduction

Large language models (LLMs) have strong ca-
pabilities in English and other languages (Ope-
nAI, 2023; Touvron et al., 2023; Jiang et al., 2023;
Groeneveld et al., 2024). Yet, processing non-
English texts with LLMs is challenging. They suf-
fer from tokenization overfragmentation2 and thus
require more inference steps due to the reliance on
English-centric tokenizers and vocabulary, result-

1Our code and models are available on GitHub.
2See Appendix E.1 for a quantitative analysis.

Figure 1: We explore various adaptation strategies for
cross-lingual vocabulary expansion (
) that allow infer-
ence speedups while retaining competitive performance
to the source models in low-resource settings.

ing in higher utility costs for non-English speak-
ers (Ahia et al., 2023; Petrov et al., 2023).

Cross-lingual vocabulary adaptation (CVA) via
vocabulary expansion has been proposed to adapt
LLMs (including their tokenizers) to specific target
languages. Vocabulary expansion approaches ex-
tend the vocabulary of a source model with tokens
from a target language, followed by continual pre-
training on target language data. A wide range of
language-specific LLMs derived from an English-
centric LLM such as Llama2 (Touvron et al., 2023)
have been made available following this approach,
including Chinese (Cui et al., 2023), Tamil (Bal-
achandran, 2023), Portuguese (Larcher et al., 2023),
and Japanese (Fujii et al., 2024) models, inter alia.
Vocabulary expansion improves inference speed
but often assumes access to a substantial amount
of target language data for adaptation. For exam-
ple, Chinese and Tamil LLaMAs make use of 20
and 12GB of target language text, respectively (Cui
et al., 2023; Balachandran, 2023). Given the guar-
anteed large number of model updates in high-

3Language adaptive pre-trainingText data30K sentencesSource tokenizerSource LLMLlama2 (7B)  Llama3 (8B) Gemma2 (9B)2Initialize embedding & LM head for new tokensSourceTargetRandom FOCUS Mean MergeAlignInitialization methods⚙1Build adapted tokenizer(1)Training procedure(2)Training objective(3)Sequence length⚙Source tokenizerAdapted tokenizerInputAdapted LLMOutputAdapted tokenizerFaster inference✅ 🚀✅ 💥Competitive performance to Source LLM⚙ Parameters consideredTraining methodsNew tokens⚙Training🔥Source LLMEmbeddingLM headAdapted LLM⚙ 
 
 
 
 
 
resource settings, the embeddings of new tokens are
often simply randomly initialized, followed by the
standard continual pre-training with a causal lan-
guage modeling (CLM) objective (Cui et al., 2023;
Balachandran, 2023; Larcher et al., 2023; Choi
et al., 2024). However, it is not clear how effec-
tive this approach to vocabulary expansion is in
low-resource settings.

In this paper, we seek to (i) answer if this widely
used adaptation approach under high-resource set-
tings is as effective in low-resource settings; and
(ii) identify the best possible vocabulary expansion
strategies for language adaptation in low-resource
settings, maintaining similar performance to the
source models with faster inference (Figure 1). Our
key contributions are as follows:

• We present the first systematic study of vocab-
ulary expansion-based adaptation of genera-
t