4
2
0
2

b
e
F
8

]

G
L
.
s
c
[

4
v
7
4
1
3
1
.
5
0
2
2
:
v
i
X
r
a

Matryoshka Representation Learning

Aditya Kusupati∗ †⋄, Gantavya Bhatt∗†, Aniket Rege∗†,
Matthew Wallingford†, Aditya Sinha⋄, Vivek Ramanujan†, William Howard-Snyder†,
Kaifeng Chen⋄, Sham Kakade‡, Prateek Jain⋄ and Ali Farhadi†
†University of Washington, ⋄Google Research, ‡Harvard University
{kusupati,ali}@cs.washington.edu, prajain@google.com

Abstract

Learned representations are a central component in modern ML systems, serv-
ing a multitude of downstream tasks. When training such representations, it
is often the case that computational and statistical constraints for each down-
stream task are unknown. In this context, rigid fixed-capacity representations
can be either over or under-accommodating to the task at hand. This leads us
to ask: can we design a flexible representation that can adapt to multiple down-
stream tasks with varying computational resources? Our main contribution is
Matryoshka Representation Learning (MRL) which encodes information at
different granularities and allows a single embedding to adapt to the computational
constraints of downstream tasks. MRL minimally modifies existing representation
learning pipelines and imposes no additional cost during inference and deployment.
MRL learns coarse-to-fine representations that are at least as accurate and rich as
independently trained low-dimensional representations. The flexibility within the
learned Matryoshka Representations offer: (a) up to 14× smaller embedding
size for ImageNet-1K classification at the same level of accuracy; (b) up to 14×
real-world speed-ups for large-scale retrieval on ImageNet-1K and 4K; and (c) up
to 2% accuracy improvements for long-tail few-shot classification, all while being
as robust as the original representations. Finally, we show that MRL extends seam-
lessly to web-scale datasets (ImageNet, JFT) across various modalities – vision
(ViT, ResNet), vision + language (ALIGN) and language (BERT). MRL code and
pretrained models are open-sourced at https://github.com/RAIVNLab/MRL.

1

Introduction

Learned representations [57] are fundamental building blocks of real-world ML systems [66, 91].
Trained once and frozen, d-dimensional representations encode rich information and can be used
to perform multiple downstream tasks [4]. The deployment of deep representations has two steps:
(1) an expensive yet constant-cost forward pass to compute the representation [29] and (2) utilization
of the representation for downstream applications [50, 89]. Compute costs for the latter part of the
pipeline scale with the embedding dimensionality as well as the data size (N ) and label space (L).
At web-scale [15, 85] this utilization cost overshadows the feature computation cost. The rigidity in
these representations forces the use of high-dimensional embedding vectors across multiple tasks
despite the varying resource and accuracy constraints that require flexibility.

Human perception of the natural world has a naturally coarse-to-fine granularity [28, 32]. However,
perhaps due to the inductive bias of gradient-based training [84], deep learning models tend to diffuse
“information” across the entire representation vector. The desired elasticity is usually enabled in the
existing flat and fixed representations either through training multiple low-dimensional models [29],
jointly optimizing sub-networks of varying capacity [9, 100] or post-hoc compression [38, 60]. Each
of these techniques struggle to meet the requirements for adaptive large-scale deployment either

∗Equal contribution – AK led the project with extensive support from GB and AR for experimentation.

36th Conference on Neural Information Processing Systems (NeurIPS 2022).

 
 
 
 
 
 
due to training/maintenance overhead, numerous expensive forward passes through all of the data,
storage and memory cost for multiple copies of encoded data, expensive on-the-fly feature selection
or a significant drop in accuracy. By encoding coarse-to-fine-grained representations, which are as
accurate as the independently trained counterparts, we learn with minimal overhead a representation
that can be deployed adaptively at no additional cost during inference.

We introduce Matryoshka Representation Learning (MRL) to induce flexibility in the learned
representation. MRL learns representations of varying capacities within the same high-dimensional
vector through explicit optimization of O(log(d)) lower-dimensional vectors in a nested fashion,
hence the name Matryoshka. MRL can be adapted to any existing representation pipeline and
is easily extended to many standard tasks in computer vision and natural language processing.
Figure 1 illustrates the core idea of Matryoshka Representation Learning (MRL) and the adaptive
deployment settings of the learned Matryoshka Representations.

The first m-dimensions, m ∈ [d], of
the Matryoshka Representation is
an information-rich low-dimensional
vector, at no additional 