2
2
0
2

y
a
M
3
2

]

V
C
.
s
c
[

1
v
7
8
4
1
1
.
5
0
2
2
:
v
i
X
r
a

Photorealistic Text-to-Image Diffusion Models
with Deep Language Understanding

Chitwan Saharia∗, William Chan∗, Saurabh Saxena†, Lala Li†, Jay Whang†,
Emily Denton, Seyed Kamyar Seyed Ghasemipour, Burcu Karagol Ayan,
S. Sara Mahdavi, Rapha Gontijo Lopes, Tim Salimans,
Jonathan Ho†, David J Fleet†, Mohammad Norouzi∗

{sahariac,williamchan,mnorouzi}@google.com
{srbs,lala,jwhang,jonathanho,davidfleet}@google.com

Google Research, Brain Team
Toronto, Ontario, Canada

Abstract

We present Imagen, a text-to-image diffusion model with an unprecedented degree
of photorealism and a deep level of language understanding. Imagen builds on
the power of large transformer language models in understanding text and hinges
on the strength of diffusion models in high-ﬁdelity image generation. Our key
discovery is that generic large language models (e.g. T5), pretrained on text-only
corpora, are surprisingly effective at encoding text for image synthesis: increasing
the size of the language model in Imagen boosts both sample ﬁdelity and image-
text alignment much more than increasing the size of the image diffusion model.
Imagen achieves a new state-of-the-art FID score of 7.27 on the COCO dataset,
without ever training on COCO, and human raters ﬁnd Imagen samples to be on par
with the COCO data itself in image-text alignment. To assess text-to-image models
in greater depth, we introduce DrawBench, a comprehensive and challenging
benchmark for text-to-image models. With DrawBench, we compare Imagen with
recent methods including VQ-GAN+CLIP, Latent Diffusion Models, GLIDE and
DALL-E 2, and ﬁnd that human raters prefer Imagen over other models in side-by-
side comparisons, both in terms of sample quality and image-text alignment. See
imagen.research.google for an overview of the results.

1

Introduction

Multimodal learning has come into prominence recently, with text-to-image synthesis [53, 12, 57]
and image-text contrastive learning [49, 31, 74] at the forefront. These models have transformed
the research community and captured widespread public attention with creative image generation
[22, 54] and editing applications [21, 41, 34]. To pursue this research direction further, we introduce
Imagen, a text-to-image diffusion model that combines the power of transformer language models
(LMs) [15, 52] with high-ﬁdelity diffusion models [28, 29, 16, 41] to deliver an unprecedented
degree of photorealism and a deep level of language understanding in text-to-image synthesis. In
contrast to prior work that uses only image-text data for model training [e.g., 53, 41], the key ﬁnding
behind Imagen is that text embeddings from large LMs [52, 15], pretrained on text-only corpora, are
remarkably effective for text-to-image synthesis. See Fig. 1 for select samples.

Imagen comprises a frozen T5-XXL [52] encoder to map input text into a sequence of embeddings
and a 64×64 image diffusion model, followed by two super-resolution diffusion models for generating

∗Equal contribution.
†Core contribution.

 
 
 
 
 
 
Sprouts in the shape of text ‘Imagen’ coming out of a
fairytale book.

A photo of a Shiba Inu dog with a backpack riding a
bike. It is wearing sunglasses and a beach hat.

A high contrast portrait of a very happy fuzzy panda
dressed as a chef in a high end kitchen making dough.
There is a painting of ﬂowers on the wall behind him.

Teddy bears swimming at the Olympics 400m Butter-
ﬂy event.

A cute corgi lives in a house made out of sushi.

A cute sloth holding a small treasure chest. A bright
golden glow is coming from the chest.

A brain riding a rocketship heading towards the moon.

A dragon fruit wearing karate belt in the snow.

A strawberry mug ﬁlled with white sesame seeds. The
mug is ﬂoating in a dark chocolate sea.

Figure 1: Select 1024 × 1024 Imagen samples for various text inputs. We only include photorealistic
images in this ﬁgure and leave artistic content to the Appendix, since generating photorealistic images
is more challenging from a technical point of view. Figs. A.1 to A.3 show more samples.

2

256×256 and 1024×1024 images (see Fig. A.4). All diffusion models are conditioned on the text
embedding sequence and use classiﬁer-free guidance [27]. Imagen relies on new sampling techniques
to allow usage of large guidance weights without sample quality degradation observed in prior work,
resulting in images with higher ﬁdelity and better image-text alignment than previously possible.

While conceptually simple and easy to train, Imagen yields surprisingly strong results. Imagen
outperforms other methods on COCO [36] with zero-shot FID-30K of 7.27, signiﬁcantly outper-
forming prior work such as GLIDE [41] (at 12.4) and the concurrent work of DALL-E 2 [54] (at
10.4). Our zero-shot FID score is also better than state-of-the-art models trained on COCO, e.g.,
Make-A-Scene [22] (at 7.6). Additionally, human raters indicate that generated samples from Im