3
2
0
2

r
a

M
1
3

]

G
L
.
s
c
[

3
v
9
8
0
4
0
.
2
1
2
2
:
v
i
X
r
a

Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2023

EDITING MODELS WITH TASK ARITHMETIC

Gabriel Ilharco∗1 Marco Tulio Ribeiro2 Mitchell Wortsman1 Suchin Gururangan1
Ludwig Schmidt1,3 Hannaneh Hajishirzi1,3 Ali Farhadi1
1University of Washington 2Microsoft Research 3Allen Institute for AI

ABSTRACT

Changing how pre-trained models behave—e.g., improving their performance on a
downstream task or mitigating biases learned during pre-training—is a common
practice when developing machine learning systems. In this work, we propose a
new paradigm for steering the behavior of neural networks, centered around task
vectors. A task vector speciﬁes a direction in the weight space of a pre-trained
model, such that movement in that direction improves performance on the task.
We build task vectors by subtracting the weights of a pre-trained model from the
weights of the same model after ﬁne-tuning on a task. We show that these task
vectors can be modiﬁed and combined together through arithmetic operations
such as negation and addition, and the behavior of the resulting model is steered
accordingly. Negating a task vector decreases performance on the target task, with
little change in model behavior on control tasks. Moreover, adding task vectors
together can improve performance on multiple tasks at once. Finally, when tasks are
linked by an analogy relationship of the form “A is to B as C is to D”, combining
task vectors from three of the tasks can improve performance on the fourth, even
when no data from the fourth task is used for training. Overall, our experiments
with several models, modalities and tasks show that task arithmetic is a simple,
efﬁcient and effective way of editing models.

1

INTRODUCTION

Pre-trained models are commonly used as backbones of machine learning systems. In practice,
we often want to edit models after pre-training,1 to improve performance on downstream tasks
[105; 100; 63; 39], mitigate biases or unwanted behavior [85; 59; 82; 71], align models with human
preferences [4; 74; 44; 32], or update models with new information [104; 15; 69; 70].

In this work, we present a new paradigm for editing neural networks based on task vectors, which
encode the information necessary to do well on a given task. Inspired by recent work on weight
interpolation [27; 100; 63; 99; 39; 55; 2; 20], we obtain such vectors by taking the weights of a model
ﬁne-tuned on a task and subtracting the corresponding pre-trained weights (Figure 1a).

We show that we can edit a variety of models with task arithmetic—performing simple arithmetic
operations on task vectors (Figure 1b-d). For example, negating a vector can be used to remove
undesirable behaviors or unlearn tasks, while adding task vectors leads to better multi-task models,
or even improves performance on a single task. Finally, when tasks form an analogy relationship,
task vectors can be combined to improve performance on tasks where data is scarce.

Forgetting via negation. Users can negate task vectors to mitigate undesirable behaviors (e.g.,
toxic generations), or even to forget speciﬁc tasks altogether, like OCR. In Section 3, we negate
a task vector from a language model ﬁne-tuned on toxic data [77; 8], reducing the proportion of
generations classiﬁed as toxic, with little change in ﬂuency. We also negate task vectors for image
classiﬁcation tasks, resulting in substantially lower accuracy on the task we wish to forget with little
loss on ImageNet accuracy [16].

∗Correspondence to gamaga@cs.washington.edu.
1We use the term editing to refer to any intervention done to a model done after the pre-training stage.

1

 
 
 
 
 
 
Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2023

Figure 1: An illustration of task vectors and the arithmetic operations we study for editing models.
(a) A task vector is obtained by subtracting the weights of a pre-trained model from the weights of
the same model after ﬁne-tuning (Section 2). (b) Negating a task vector degrades performance on
the task, without substantial changes in control tasks (Section 3). (c) Adding task vectors together
improves the performance of the pre-trained model on the tasks under consideration (Section 4).
(d) When tasks form an analogy relationship such as supervised and unsupervised learning on two
different data sources, it is possible to improve performance on a supervised target task using only
vectors from the remaining three combinations of objectives and datasets (Section 5).

Learning via addition. Adding task vectors results in better multi-task models, or improved perfor-
mance on a single task. In Section 4, we add task vectors from various image models (CLIP, Radford
et al. [78]) and compare the performance of the resulting model with using multiple specialized
ﬁne-tuned models. We ﬁnd that the single resulting model can be competitive with using multiple
specialized models. Adding two task vectors maintains 98.9% of the acc