9
1
0
2

p
e
S
5
2

]
L
C
.
s
c
[

2
v
2
6
9
8
0
.
8
0
9
1
:
v
i
X
r
a

WELL-READ STUDENTS LEARN BETTER: ON THE IM-
PORTANCE OF PRE-TRAINING COMPACT MODELS

Iulia Turc, Ming-Wei Chang, Kenton Lee, Kristina Toutanova
Google Research
{iuliaturc, mingweichang, kentonl, kristout}@google.com

ABSTRACT

Recent developments in natural language representations have been accompanied
by large and expensive models that leverage vast amounts of general-domain text
through self-supervised pre-training. Due to the cost of applying such models
to down-stream tasks, several model compression techniques on pre-trained lan-
guage representations have been proposed (Sun et al., 2019a; Sanh, 2019). How-
ever, surprisingly, the simple baseline of just pre-training and ﬁne-tuning compact
models has been overlooked. In this paper, we ﬁrst show that pre-training remains
important in the context of smaller architectures, and ﬁne-tuning pre-trained com-
pact models can be competitive to more elaborate methods proposed in concurrent
work. Starting with pre-trained compact models, we then explore transferring task
knowledge from large ﬁne-tuned models through standard knowledge distillation.
The resulting simple, yet effective and general algorithm, Pre-trained Distillation,
brings further improvements. Through extensive experiments, we more generally
explore the interaction between pre-training and distillation under two variables
that have been under-studied: model size and properties of unlabeled task data.
One surprising observation is that they have a compound effect even when se-
quentially applied on the same data. To accelerate future research, we will make
our 24 pre-trained miniature BERT models publicly available.

1

INTRODUCTION

Self-supervised learning on a general-domain text corpus followed by end-task learning is the two-
staged training approach that enabled deep-and-wide Transformer-based networks (Vaswani et al.,
2017) to advance language understanding (Devlin et al., 2018; Yang et al., 2019b; Sun et al., 2019b;
Liu et al., 2019). However, state-of-the-art models have hundreds of millions of parameters, incur-
ring a high computational cost. Our goal is to realize their gains under a restricted memory and
latency budget. We seek a training method that is well-performing, general and simple and can
leverage additional resources such as unlabeled task data.

Before considering compression techniques, we start with the following research question: Could
we directly train small models using the same two-staged approach? In other words, we explore the
idea of applying language model (LM) pre-training and task ﬁne-tuning to compact architectures
directly. This simple baseline has so far been overlooked by the NLP community, potentially based
on an underlying assumption that the limited capacity of compact models is capitalized better when
focusing on the end task rather than a general language model objective. Concurrent work to ours
proposes variations of the standard pre-training+ﬁne-tuning procedure, but with limited generality
(Sun et al., 2019a; Sanh, 2019). We make the surprising ﬁnding that pre-training+ﬁne-tuning in its
original formulation is a competitive method for building compact models.

For further gains, we additionally leverage knowledge distillation (Hinton et al., 2015), the standard
technique for model compression. A compact student is trained to recover the predictions of a highly
accurate teacher. In addition to the posited regularization effect of these soft labels (Hinton et al.,
2015), distillation provides a means of producing pseudo-labels for unlabeled data. By regarding
LM pre-training of compact models as a student initialization strategy, we can take advantage of
both methods. The resulting algorithm is a sequence of three standard training operations: masked
LM (MLM) pre-training (Devlin et al., 2018), task-speciﬁc distillation, and optional ﬁne-tuning.

1

 
 
 
 
 
 
Algorithm 1
Require: student θ, teacher Ω, unlabeled LM data
DLM , unlabeled transfer data DT , labeled data DL

Get loss L ← − (cid:80)
Update student θ ← BACKPROP(L, θ)

1: Initialize θ by pre-training an MLM+ on DLM
2: for each x ∈ DT do
3:
4:
5: end for
6: Fine-tune θ on DL
7: return θ

y PΩ(y|x) log Pθ(y|x)

(cid:46) Optional step.

Figure 1: Pre-trained Distillation

From here on, we will refer to it as Pre-trained Distillation (PD) (Figure 1). As we will show in
Section 6.2, PD outperforms the pre-training+ﬁne-tuning (PF) baseline, especially in the presence
of a large transfer set for distillation.

In a controlled study following data and model architecture settings in concurrent work (Section 4),
we show that Pre-trained Distillation outperforms or is competitive with more elaborate approaches
which use either more sophisticated distillation of task knowledge (Sun et al., 2019a) or more so-
phisticated pre-training from unlabeled text (Sanh, 2019). The former distill task knowledge from
intermediate teacher activ