6
1
0
2

g
u
A
0
1

]

V
C
.
s
c
[

3
v
2
7
2
0
0
.
8
0
6
1
:
v
i
X
r
a

Modeling Context in Referring Expressions

Licheng Yu, Patrick Poirson, Shan Yang, Alexander C. Berg, Tamara L. Berg

Department of Computer Science,
University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill
{licheng,poirson,alexyang,aberg,tlberg}@cs.unc.edu

Abstract. Humans refer to objects in their environments all the time,
especially in dialogue with other people. We explore generating and com-
prehending natural language referring expressions for objects in images.
In particular, we focus on incorporating better measures of visual con-
text into referring expression models and ﬁnd that visual comparison to
other objects within an image helps improve performance signiﬁcantly.
We also develop methods to tie the language generation process together,
so that we generate expressions for all objects of a particular category
jointly. Evaluation on three recent datasets - RefCOCO, RefCOCO+,
and RefCOCOg1, shows the advantages of our methods for both refer-
ring expression generation and comprehension.

Keywords: language, language and vision, generation, referring expres-
sion generation

1 Introduction

In this paper, we look at the dual-tasks of generating and comprehending nat-
ural language expressions referring to particular objects within an image. Re-
ferring to objects is a natural and common experience. For example, one often
uses referring expressions in everyday speech to indicate a particular person or
object to a co-observer, e.g., “the man in the red hat” or “the book on the ta-
ble”. Computational models to generate and comprehend such expressions would
have applicability to human-computer interactions, especially for agents such as
robots, interacting with humans in the physical world.

Successful models will have to connect both recognition of visual attributes of
objects and eﬀective natural language generation to compose useful expressions
for dialogue. A broader version of this latter goal was considered in 1975 by
Paul Grice who introduced maxims describing cooperative conversation between
people [11]. These maxims, called the Gricean Maxims, describe a set of rational
principles for natural language dialogue interactions. The 4 maxims are: quality
(try to be truthful), quantity (make your contribution as informative as you can,
giving as much information as is needed but no more), relevance (be relevant
and pertinent to the discussion), and manner (be as clear, brief, and orderly as
possible, avoiding obscurity and ambiguity).

1 Datasets and toolbox can be downloaded from https://github.com/lichengunc/refer

 
 
 
 
 
 
2

Licheng et al.

Fig. 1. Example referring expressions for the giraﬀe outlined in green from three re-
ferring expression datasets (described in Sec 4).

For the purpose of referring to objects in complex real world scenes these
maxims suggest that a well formed expression should be informative, succinct,
and unambiguous. The last point is especially necessary for referring to objects
in the real world since we often ﬁnd multiple objects of a particular category
situated together in a scene. For example, consider the image in Fig. 1 which
contains three giraﬀes. We should not refer to the target (outlined in green) as
“the spotted giraﬀe” since all of the giraﬀes are spotted and this would create
an ambiguous reference. More reasonably we should refer to the target as “the
giraﬀe with lowered head” to diﬀerentiate this giraﬀe from the other two.

The task of referring expression generation (REG) has been studied since the
1970s [40,22,30,7], with most work focused on studying particular aspects of the
problem in some relatively constrained datasets. Recent approaches have pushed
this work toword more realistic scenarios. Kazemzadeh et al [19] introduced the
ﬁrst large-scale dataset of referring expressions for objects in real-world natural
images, collected in a two-player game. This dataset was originally collected on
top of the 20,000 image ImageCleft dataset, but has recently been extended
to images from the MSCOCO collection. We make use of the RefCOCO and
RefCOCO+ datasets in our work along with another recently collected referring
expression dataset, released by Google, denoted in our paper as RefCOCOg [26].
The most relevant work to ours is Mao et al [26] which introduced the ﬁrst
deep learning approach to REG. In this model, the authors use a Convolutional
Neural Network (CNN) [36] model pre-trained on ImageNet [34] to extract visual
features from a bounding box around the target object and from the entire image.
They use these features plus 5 features encoding the target object location and
size as input to a Long Short-term Memory (LSTM) [10] network that generates
expressions. Additionally, they apply the same model to the inverse problem
of referring expression comprehension where the input is a natural language
expression and the goal is to localize the referred object in the image.

Similar to th