TruthfulQA: Measuring How Models Mimic Human Falsehoods

Stephanie Lin
University of Oxford
sylin07@gmail.com

Jacob Hilton
OpenAI
jhilton@openai.com

Owain Evans
University of Oxford
owaine@gmail.com

2
2
0
2

y
a
M
8

]
L
C
.
s
c
[

2
v
8
5
9
7
0
.
9
0
1
2
:
v
i
X
r
a

Abstract

We propose a benchmark to measure whether
a language model is truthful in generating an-
swers to questions. The benchmark comprises
817 questions that span 38 categories, includ-
ing health,
law, ﬁnance and politics. We
crafted questions that some humans would an-
swer falsely due to a false belief or miscon-
ception. To perform well, models must avoid
generating false answers learned from imitat-
ing human texts. We tested GPT-3, GPT-Neo/J,
GPT-2 and a T5-based model. The best model
was truthful on 58% of questions, while hu-
man performance was 94%. Models generated
many false answers that mimic popular mis-
conceptions and have the potential to deceive
humans. The largest models were generally
the least truthful. This contrasts with other
NLP tasks, where performance improves with
model size. However, this result is expected if
false answers are learned from the training dis-
tribution. We suggest that scaling up models
alone is less promising for improving truthful-
ness than ﬁne-tuning using training objectives
other than imitation of text from the web.

“The enemy of

truth is blind acceptance.”
–Anonymous

1

Introduction

There is growing interest in using language models
to generate text for practical applications. Large
companies are deploying their own models (Raffel
et al., 2019; Fedus et al., 2021), and hundreds of
organizations are deploying GPT-3 via APIs from
OpenAI and other ﬁrms (OpenAI, 2020; Wolf et al.,
2020; CohereAI, 2021; OpenAI, 2021). While re-
cent language models are impressively ﬂuent, they
have a tendency to generate false statements. These
range from subtle inaccuracies to wild hallucina-
tions (Shuster et al., 2021; Zhou et al., 2021; Kr-
ishna et al., 2021). This leads to three concerns:

1. Accidental misuse. Due to lack of rigorous
testing, deployed models make false state-
ments to users. This could lead to deception
and distrust (Tamkin et al., 2021).

2. Blocking positive applications. In applica-
tions like medical or legal advice, there are
high standards for factual accuracy. Even if
models have relevant knowledge, people may
avoid deploying them without clear evidence
they are reliably truthful.

3. Malicious misuse.

If models can generate
plausible false statements in ways that are
not easily identiﬁable, they could be used to
deceive humans via disinformation or fraud
(Zellers et al., 2019; Schuster et al., 2019).
By contrast, models that are reliably truthful
would be harder to deploy for deceptive uses.

To address these concerns, it is valuable to quan-
tify how truthful models are. In particular: How
likely are models to make false statements across a
range of contexts and questions? Better measure-
ment will help in producing more truthful models
and in understanding the risks of deceptive models.
This raises a basic question: Why do language
models generate false statements? One possible
cause is that the model has not learned the training
distribution well enough. When asked the question,
“What is 1241 × 123?”, GPT-3 outputs “14812”.
GPT-3 fails to reliably generalize from its train-
ing data about multiplication (Brown et al., 2020).
Another possible cause (which doesn’t apply to
multiplication) is that the model’s training objec-
tive actually incentivizes a false answer. We call
such false answers imitative falsehoods. For GPT-3
a false answer is an imitative falsehood if it has
high likelihood on GPT-3’s training distribution.
Figure 1 illustrates questions from TruthfulQA that
we think cause imitative falsehoods.

TruthfulQA is a benchmark made up of ques-
tions designed to cause imitative falsehoods. One

 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 1: TruthfulQA questions with answers from GPT-3-175B with default prompt. Examples illustrate
false answers from GPT-3 that mimic human falsehoods and misconceptions. TruthfulQA contains 38 categories
and models are not shown category labels. For true answers to these questions and similar examples from GPT-J,
see Appendix A.

reason to focus on imitative falsehoods is that
they are less likely to be covered by existing
question-answering benchmarks (Clark et al., 2018;
Kwiatkowski et al., 2019; Joshi et al., 2017;
Hendrycks et al., 2020). Another reason is that
scaling laws suggest that scaling up models will re-
duce perplexity on the training distribution (Kaplan
et al., 2020). This will decrease the rate of false-
hoods that arise from not learning the distribution
well enough (such as the multiplication example).
Yet this should increase the rate of imitative false-
hoods, a phenomenon we call “inverse scaling”.
Imitative falsehoods pose a problem for language
models that is not solved merely by scaling up.

1.1 Contributions

Benchmark. TruthfulQ