TallyQA: Answering Complex Counting Questions

Manoj Acharya, Kushal Kaﬂe, Christopher Kanan
Chester F. Carlson Center for Imaging Science
Rochester Institute of Technology
{ma7583, kk6055, kanan}@rit.edu

8
1
0
2

t
c
O
1
3

]

V
C
.
s
c
[

2
v
0
4
4
2
1
.
0
1
8
1
:
v
i
X
r
a

Abstract

Most counting questions in visual question answering (VQA)
datasets are simple and require no more than object detection.
Here, we study algorithms for complex counting questions
that involve relationships between objects, attribute identiﬁ-
cation, reasoning, and more. To do this, we created TallyQA,
the world’s largest dataset for open-ended counting. We pro-
pose a new algorithm for counting that uses relation networks
with region proposals. Our method lets relation networks be
efﬁciently used with high-resolution imagery. It yields state-
of-the-art results compared to baseline and recent systems on
both TallyQA and the HowMany-QA benchmark.

Introduction
Open-ended counting systems take in a counting ques-
tion and an image to predict a whole number that an-
swers the question. While object recognition systems now
rival humans (He et al. 2016), today’s best open-ended
counting systems perform poorly (Kaﬂe and Kanan 2017b;
Chattopadhyay et al. 2017). This could be due to an inability
to detect the correct objects or due to an inability to reason
about them. To address this, we distinguish between simple
and complex counting questions (see Fig. 1). Simple count-
ing questions only require object detection, e.g., “How many
dogs are there?” Complex questions require deeper analysis,
e.g., “How many dogs are eating?”

Open-ended counting is a special case of visual ques-
tion answering (VQA) (Antol et al. 2015; Malinowski and
Fritz 2014), in which the goal is to answer open-ended
questions about images. The best VQA systems pose it
as a classiﬁcation problem where the answer is predicted
from convolutional visual features and the question (Kaﬂe
and Kanan 2017a). While this succeeds for many question
types, it works poorly for counting (Kaﬂe and Kanan 2017b;
Chattopadhyay et al. 2017). Recently, better results were
achieved by using region proposals generated by object de-
tection algorithms (Trott, Xiong, and Socher 2018; Zhang,
Hare, and Prügel-Bennett 2018). However, datasets mostly
contain simple counting questions, as shown in Table 1. Due
to their rarity, complex questions need to be analyzed sepa-
rately to determine if a model is capable of answering them.

This paper makes three major contributions:

1. We describe TallyQA, the world’s largest open-ended
counting dataset, which is over 2.5 times bigger than

Figure 1: Counting datasets consist mostly of simple ques-
tions (top) that can be answered solely using object detection.
We study complex counting questions (bottom) that require
more than object detection using our new TallyQA dataset.

VQA2. TallyQA is designed to study both simple questions
that require only object detection and complex questions
that demand more. It will be made publicly available.
2. We propose the relational counting network (RCN), a new
algorithm for counting that infers relationships between
objects and background image regions. It is inspired by
relation networks, with modiﬁcations to handle a dynamic
number of image regions and to explicitly incorporate
background information.

 
 
 
 
 
 
3. We show that RCN surpasses state-of-the-art methods for
open-ended counting on both TallyQA and the HowMany-
QA benchmark.

Related Work

VQA Datasets & Counting
Popular VQA datasets contain a signiﬁcant number of count-
ing questions, e.g., about 7% in COCO-QA (Ren, Kiros,
and Zemel 2015), 10% of VQA1 (Antol et al. 2015), 10%
of VQA2 (Goyal et al. 2017), and 10% of TDIUC (Kaﬂe
and Kanan 2017b). There are also counting speciﬁc VQA
datasets. CountQA (Chattopadhyay et al. 2017) was created
by importing question-answer (QA) pairs from the validation
split of VQA1 and COCO-QA. This small dataset has only
2,287 test QA pairs. Recently, HowMany-QA (Trott, Xiong,
and Socher 2018) was created by importing QA pairs from
Visual Genome and VQA2, and it is considered the gold
standard for open-ended counting. As shown in Table 1, com-
plex questions are scarce in these datasets. Simple questions
can be solved using solely an object detection algorithm, so
they do not appropriately test a system’s ability to answer
arbitrary counting questions, including those requiring rea-
soning or attribute recognition. Our new dataset, TallyQA,
is designed to evaluate both simple and complex counting
questions, enabling these and other capabilities to be appro-
priately evaluated. Note that we have limited our discussion
to natural language VQA systems which pose different chal-
lenges compared to VQA on synthetic datasets, which are
often designed for speciﬁc purposes (Johnson et al. 2017;
Kaﬂe et al. 2018; Zhang et al. 2016).

Algorithms for Open-Ended Counting
Open-ended counting systems take as input a “How many ..