SOCIAL IQA: Commonsense Reasoning about Social Interactions

Maarten Sap(cid:63) ♦♥ Hannah Rashkin(cid:63) ♦♥ Derek Chen♥ Ronan Le Bras♦ Yejin Choi♦♥
♦Allen Institute for Artiﬁcial Intelligence, Seattle, WA, USA
♥Paul G. Allen School of Computer Science & Engineering, Seattle, WA, USA
{msap,hrashkin,dchen14,yejin}@cs.washington.edu
{ronanlb}@allenai.org

9
1
0
2

p
e
S
9

]
L
C
.
s
c
[

3
v
8
2
7
9
0
.
4
0
9
1
:
v
i
X
r
a

Abstract

We introduce SOCIAL IQA,
the ﬁrst large-
scale benchmark for commonsense reasoning
about social situations. SOCIAL IQA contains
38,000 multiple choice questions for prob-
ing emotional and social intelligence in a va-
riety of everyday situations (e.g., Q: “Jor-
dan wanted to tell Tracy a secret, so Jor-
dan leaned towards Tracy. Why did Jordan
do this?” A: “Make sure no one else could
hear”). Through crowdsourcing, we collect
commonsense questions along with correct
and incorrect answers about social interac-
tions, using a new framework that mitigates
stylistic artifacts in incorrect answers by ask-
ing workers to provide the right answer to a
different but related question. Empirical re-
sults show that our benchmark is challenging
for existing question-answering models based
on pretrained language models, compared to
human performance (>20% gap). Notably,
we further establish SOCIAL IQA as a re-
source for transfer learning of commonsense
knowledge, achieving state-of-the-art perfor-
mance on multiple commonsense reasoning
tasks (Winograd Schemas, COPA).

1

Introduction

Social and emotional intelligence enables humans
to reason about the mental states of others and
their likely actions (Ganaie and Mudasir, 2015).
For example, when someone spills food all over
the ﬂoor, we can infer that they will likely want to
clean up the mess, rather than taste the food off the
ﬂoor or run around in the mess (Figure 1, middle).
This example illustrates how Theory of Mind, i.e.,
the ability to reason about the implied emotions
and behavior of others, enables humans to nav-
igate social situations ranging from simple con-
versations with friends to complex negotiations in
courtrooms (Apperly, 2010).

(cid:63) Both authors contributed equally.

Figure 1: Three context-question-answers triples from
SOCIAL IQA, along with the type of reasoning required
to answer them. In the top example, humans can triv-
ially infer that Tracy pressed upon Austin because there
was no room in the elevator. Similarly, in the bottom
example, commonsense tells us that people typically
root for the hero, not the villain.

While humans trivially acquire and develop
such social reasoning skills (Moore, 2013), this
is still a challenge for machine learning models,
in part due to the lack of large-scale resources
to train and evaluate modern AI systems’ social
and emotional intelligence. Although recent ad-
vances in pretraining large language models have
yielded promising improvements on several com-
monsense inference tasks, these models still strug-
gle to reason about social situations, as shown
in this and previous work (Davis and Marcus,

REASONINGABOUTWHATHAPPENSNEXT(a)taste the food(b)mop up ✔(c)run around in the messWhat will Alex want to do next?AAlex spilled the food she just prepared all over the floor and it made a huge mess.QREASONINGABOUTEMOTIONALREACTIONS(a)sorry for the villain(b)hopeful that Robin will succeed ✔(c)like Robin should loseHow would others feel afterwards?In the school play, Robin played a hero in the struggle to the death with the angry villain.AQREASONINGABOUTMOTIVATIONWhy did Tracy do this?Tracy had accidentally pressed upon Austin in the small elevator and it was awkward.(a)get very close to Austin(b)squeeze into the elevator ✔(c)get flirty with AustinAQ 
 
 
 
 
 
2015; Nematzadeh et al., 2018; Talmor et al.,
2019). This is partly due to language models being
trained on written text corpora, where reporting
bias of knowledge limits the scope of common-
sense knowledge that can be learned (Gordon and
Van Durme, 2013; Lucy and Gauthier, 2017).

In this work, we introduce Social Intelligence
QA (SOCIAL IQA), the ﬁrst large-scale resource
to learn and measure social and emotional intel-
ligence in computational models.1 SOCIAL IQA
contains 38k multiple choice questions regard-
ing the pragmatic implications of everyday, social
events (see Figure 1). To collect this data, we de-
sign a crowdsourcing framework to gather con-
texts and questions that explicitly address social
commonsense reasoning. Additionally, by com-
bining handwritten negative answers with adver-
sarial question-switched answers (Section 3.3), we
minimize annotation artifacts that can arise from
crowdsourcing incorrect answers (Schwartz et al.,
2017; Gururangan et al., 2018).

This dataset remains challenging for AI sys-
tems, with our best performing baseline reaching
64.5% (BERT-large), signiﬁcantly lower than hu-
man performance. We further establish SOCIAL
IQA as a resource that enables transfer learning
for othe