Enriching Word Vectors with Subword Information

Piotr Bojanowski∗ and Edouard Grave∗ and Armand Joulin and Tomas Mikolov
Facebook AI Research
{bojanowski,egrave,ajoulin,tmikolov}@fb.com

7
1
0
2

n
u
J

9
1

]
L
C
.
s
c
[

2
v
6
0
6
4
0
.
7
0
6
1
:
v
i
X
r
a

Abstract

Continuous word representations, trained on
large unlabeled corpora are useful for many
natural language processing tasks. Popular
models that learn such representations ignore
the morphology of words, by assigning a dis-
tinct vector to each word. This is a limitation,
especially for languages with large vocabular-
ies and many rare words. In this paper, we pro-
pose a new approach based on the skipgram
model, where each word is represented as a
bag of character n-grams. A vector represen-
tation is associated to each character n-gram;
words being represented as the sum of these
representations. Our method is fast, allow-
ing to train models on large corpora quickly
and allows us to compute word representations
for words that did not appear in the training
data. We evaluate our word representations on
nine different languages, both on word sim-
ilarity and analogy tasks. By comparing to
recently proposed morphological word repre-
sentations, we show that our vectors achieve
state-of-the-art performance on these tasks.

1

Introduction

Learning continuous representations of words has a
long history in natural language processing (Rumel-
hart et al., 1988). These representations are typ-
ically derived from large unlabeled corpora using
co-occurrence statistics (Deerwester et al., 1990;
Schütze, 1992; Lund and Burgess, 1996). A large
body of work, known as distributional semantics,
has studied the properties of these methods (Turney

∗The two ﬁrst authors contributed equally.

et al., 2010; Baroni and Lenci, 2010). In the neural
network community, Collobert and Weston (2008)
proposed to learn word embeddings using a feed-
forward neural network, by predicting a word based
on the two words on the left and two words on the
right. More recently, Mikolov et al. (2013b) pro-
posed simple log-bilinear models to learn continu-
ous representations of words on very large corpora
efﬁciently.

Most of these techniques represent each word of
the vocabulary by a distinct vector, without param-
eter sharing. In particular, they ignore the internal
structure of words, which is an important limitation
for morphologically rich languages, such as Turk-
ish or Finnish. For example, in French or Spanish,
most verbs have more than forty different inﬂected
forms, while the Finnish language has ﬁfteen cases
for nouns. These languages contain many word
forms that occur rarely (or not at all) in the training
corpus, making it difﬁcult to learn good word rep-
resentations. Because many word formations follow
rules, it is possible to improve vector representations
for morphologically rich languages by using charac-
ter level information.

In this paper, we propose to learn representations
for character n-grams, and to represent words as the
sum of the n-gram vectors. Our main contribution
is to introduce an extension of the continuous skip-
gram model (Mikolov et al., 2013b), which takes
into account subword information. We evaluate this
model on nine languages exhibiting different mor-
phologies, showing the beneﬁt of our approach.

 
 
 
 
 
 
2 Related work

Morphological word representations.
In recent
years, many methods have been proposed to incor-
porate morphological information into word repre-
sentations. To model rare words better, Alexan-
drescu and Kirchhoff (2006) introduced factored
neural language models, where words are repre-
sented as sets of features. These features might in-
clude morphological information, and this technique
was succesfully applied to morphologically rich lan-
guages, such as Turkish (Sak et al., 2010). Re-
cently, several works have proposed different com-
position functions to derive representations of words
from morphemes (Lazaridou et al., 2013; Luong
et al., 2013; Botha and Blunsom, 2014; Qiu et
al., 2014). These different approaches rely on a
morphological decomposition of words, while ours
does not. Similarly, Chen et al. (2015) introduced
a method to jointly learn embeddings for Chinese
words and characters. Cui et al. (2015) proposed
to constrain morphologically similar words to have
similar representations. Soricut and Och (2015)
described a method to learn vector representations
of morphological transformations, allowing to ob-
tain representations for unseen words by applying
these rules. Word representations trained on mor-
phologically annotated data were introduced by Cot-
terell and Schütze (2015). Closest to our approach,
Schütze (1993) learned representations of character
four-grams through singular value decomposition,
and derived representations for words by summing
the four-grams representations. Very recently, Wi-
eting et al. (2016) also proposed to represent words
using character n-gram count vectors. How