Efﬁcient Few-Shot Learning Without Prompts
Lewis Tunstall1, Nils Reimers2, Unso Eun Seo Jo1, Luke Bates3,
Daniel Korat4, Moshe Wasserblat4, Oren Pereg4

1Hugging Face

2cohere.ai

3Ubiquitous Knowledge Processing Lab, Technical University of Darmstadt
4Emergent AI Lab, Intel Labs

1firstname@huggingface.com

2info@nils-reimers.de

3bates@ukp.informatik.tu-darmstadt.de
4firstname.lastname@intel.com

2
2
0
2

p
e
S
2
2

]
L
C
.
s
c
[

1
v
5
5
0
1
1
.
9
0
2
2
:
v
i
X
r
a

Abstract

Recent few-shot methods, such as parameter-
efﬁcient ﬁne-tuning (PEFT) and pattern ex-
ploiting training (PET), have achieved impres-
sive results in label-scarce settings. How-
ever, they are difﬁcult to employ since they
are subject to high variability from manually
crafted prompts, and typically require billion-
parameter language models to achieve high ac-
curacy. To address these shortcomings, we
propose SETFIT (Sentence Transformer Fine-
tuning), an efﬁcient and prompt-free frame-
work for few-shot ﬁne-tuning of Sentence
Transformers (ST). SETFIT works by ﬁrst ﬁne-
tuning a pretrained ST on a small number of
text pairs, in a contrastive Siamese manner.
The resulting model is then used to generate
rich text embeddings, which are used to train a
classiﬁcation head. This simple framework re-
quires no prompts or verbalizers, and achieves
high accuracy with orders of magnitude less
parameters than existing techniques. Our ex-
periments show that SETFIT obtains compa-
rable results with PEFT and PET techniques,
while being an order of magnitude faster to
train. We also show that SETFIT can be ap-
plied in multilingual settings by simply switch-
ing the ST body. Our code1 and datasets2 are
made publicly available.

1

Introduction

Few-shot learning methods have emerged as an at-
tractive solution to label-scarce scenarios, where
data annotation can be time-consuming and costly.
These methods are designed to work with a small
number of labeled training examples, and typi-
cally involve adapting pretrained language models
(PLMs) for speciﬁc downstream tasks.

Today, there exist several approaches to few-
shot learning with PLMs. These include in-
context learning (ICL), parameter-efﬁcient ﬁne-
tuning (PEFT), and pattern exploiting training

1https://github.com/huggingface/setfit
2https://huggingface.co/setfit

Figure 1: Compared to standard ﬁne-tuning, SETFIT is
more sample efﬁcient and exhibits less variability when
trained on a small number of labeled examples.

(PET). Unfortunately, these approaches can be im-
practical for many researchers and practitioners.
One disadvantage is that these approaches typically
rely on the use of large-scale language models to
achieve high performance. For example, T-FEW
(Liu et al., 2022) is based on the 11 billion param-
eter model T0 (Sanh et al., 2021), while GPT-3
(Brown et al., 2020a) is an order of magnitude
larger. Secondly, training and deploying these few-
shot methods typically requires specialized infras-
tructure with limited accessibility. Moreover, PET
and the prominent PEFT methods require, as part
of their training, the input of manually generated
prompts, yielding varying outcomes depending on
the level of manual prompt-engineering.

In this paper, we propose SETFIT, an approach
based on Sentence Transformers (ST) (Reimers
and Gurevych, 2019) that dispenses with prompts
altogether and does not require large-scale PLMs
to achieve high accuracy. For example, with only
8 labeled examples in the Customer Reviews (CR)
sentiment dataset, SETFIT is competitive with ﬁne-
tuning on the full training set, despite the ﬁne-tuned
model being three times larger (see Figure 1).

We demonstrate SETFIT’s efﬁcacy in few-shot
text classiﬁcation over a range of NLP datasets

 
 
 
 
 
 
and in multiple scenarios including distillation and
non-English data. We compare our method to stan-
dard PLM ﬁne-tuning, state-of-the-art PET- and
PEFT-based methods such as ADAPET (Tam et al.,
2021) and T-FEW (Liu et al., 2022), as well as
recent prompt-free techniques such as PERFECT
(Karimi Mahabadi et al., 2022a).

We summarize our contributions as follows:

1. We propose SETFIT– a simple and prompt-
free method – and provide a comprehensive
guide for applying it in practical few-shot set-
tings.

2. We evaluate SETFIT’s performance on a num-
ber of few-shot text classiﬁcations tasks and
show that it outperforms the state-of-the-
art prompt-free method and ranks alongside
much larger prompt-based, few-shot models.

3. We make the code and data used in our work

publicly available.

2 Related Work

SETFIT engages with two related lines of literature.
We ﬁrst extend the small but signiﬁcant body of
work on Sentence Transformers (ST) for text classi-
ﬁcation. Perone et al. (2018) introduced the idea of
using sentence embeddings for text classiﬁcation.
Piao (2021) used ’out-of-the-box’ STs for text clas-
siﬁcation without ﬁne-tuning them. SETFIT differs
from these works in two aspects: First, we ﬁne-tune
the ST in 