9
1
0
2

t
c
O
6
1

]

V
C
.
s
c
[

2
v
8
4
6
3
1
.
5
0
9
1
:
v
i
X
r
a

Scene Text Visual Question Answering

Ali Furkan Biten∗,1 Rub`en Tito∗,1 Andres Maﬂa∗,1

Lluis Gomez1

Marc¸al Rusi˜nol1

Ernest Valveny1 C.V. Jawahar2 Dimosthenis Karatzas1

1Computer Vision Center, UAB, Spain

2CVIT, IIIT Hyderabad, India

{abiten, rperez, amafla, lgomez, marcal, dimos}@cvc.uab.es

Abstract

Current visual question answering datasets do not con-
sider the rich semantic information conveyed by text within
an image. In this work, we present a new dataset, ST-VQA,
that aims to highlight the importance of exploiting high-
level semantic information present in images as textual cues
in the Visual Question Answering process. We use this
dataset to deﬁne a series of tasks of increasing difﬁculty for
which reading the scene text in the context provided by the
visual information is necessary to reason and generate an
appropriate answer. We propose a new evaluation metric
for these tasks to account both for reasoning errors as well
as shortcomings of the text recognition module. In addition
we put forward a series of baseline methods, which provide
further insight to the newly released dataset, and set the
scene for further research.

1. Introduction

Textual content in man-made environments conveys im-
portant high-level semantic information that is explicit and
not available in any other form in the scene. Interpreting
written information in man-made environments is essential
in order to perform most everyday tasks like making a pur-
chase, using public transportation, ﬁnding a place in the
city, getting an appointment, or checking whether a store
is open or not, to mention just a few.

Text is present in about 50% of the images in large-scale
datasets such as MS Common Objects in Context [53] and
the percentage goes up sharply in urban environments. It
is thus fundamental to design models that take advantage
of these explicit cues. Ensuring that scene text is properly
accounted for is not a marginal research problem, but quite
central for holistic scene interpretation models.

The research community on reading systems has made
signiﬁcant advances over the past decade [26, 15]. The

∗Equal contribution.

Q: What is the price of the ba-
nanas per kg?
A: $11.98

Q: What does the red sign
say?
A: Stop

Q: Where is this train going?
A: To New York
A: New York

Q: What is the exit number on
the street sign?
A: 2
A: Exit 2

Figure 1. Recognising and interpreting textual content is essential
for scene understanding. In the Scene Text Visual Question An-
swering (ST-VQA) dataset leveraging textual information in the
image is the only way to solve the QA task.

current state of the art in scene text understanding allows
endowing computer vision systems with basic reading ca-
pacity, although the community has not yet exploited this
towards solving higher level problems.

At the same time, current Visual Question Answering
(VQA) datasets and models present serious limitations as
a result of ignoring scene text content, with disappointing
results on questions that require scene text understanding.
We therefore consider it is timely to bring together these
two research lines in the VQA domain. To move towards
more human like reasoning, we contemplate that grounding
question answering both on the visual and the textual in-

 
 
 
 
 
 
formation is necessary. Integrating the textual modality in
existing VQA pipelines is not trivial. On one hand, spot-
ting relevant textual information in the scene requires per-
forming complex reasoning about positions, colors, objects
and semantics, to localise, recognise and eventually inter-
pret the recognised text in the context of the visual content,
or any other contextual information available. On the other
hand, current VQA models work mostly on the principle of
classical [44] and operant (instrumental) conditioning [51].
Such models, display important dataset biases [23] as well
as failures in counting [9, 1], comparing and identifying at-
tributes. These limitations make current models unsuitable
to directly integrate scene text information which is often
orthogonal and uncorrelated to the visual statistics of the
image.

To this end, in this work we propose a new dataset, called
Scene Text Visual Question Answering (ST-VQA) where the
questions and answers are attained in a way that questions
can only be answered based on the text present in the image.
We consciously draw the majority (85.5%) of ST-VQA im-
ages from datasets that have generic question/answer pairs
that can be combined with ST-VQA to establish a more
generic, holistic VQA task. Some sample images and ques-
tions from the collected dataset are shown in Figure 1.

Additionally, we introduce three tasks of increasing dif-
ﬁculty that simulate different degrees of availability of con-
textual information. Finally, we deﬁne a new evaluation
metric to better discern the models’ answering ability, that
employs the Levenshtein distanc