WINOGRANDE: An Adversarial Winograd Schema Challenge at Scale

Keisuke Sakaguchi∗, Ronan Le Bras∗, Chandra Bhagavatula∗, Yejin Choi∗†
∗Allen Institute for Artiﬁcial Intelligence †University of Washington
{keisukes, ronanlb, chandrab, yejinc}@allenai.org

9
1
0
2

v
o
N
1
2

]
L
C
.
s
c
[

2
v
1
4
6
0
1
.
7
0
9
1
:
v
i
X
r
a

Abstract

The Winograd Schema Challenge (WSC) (Levesque, Davis,
and Morgenstern 2011), a benchmark for commonsense rea-
soning, is a set of 273 expert-crafted pronoun resolution prob-
lems originally designed to be unsolvable for statistical models
that rely on selectional preferences or word associations. How-
ever, recent advances in neural language models have already
reached around 90% accuracy on variants of WSC. This raises
an important question whether these models have truly ac-
quired robust commonsense capabilities or whether they rely
on spurious biases in the datasets that lead to an overestimation
of the true capabilities of machine commonsense.
To investigate this question, we introduce WINOGRANDE,
a large-scale dataset of 44k problems, inspired by the origi-
nal WSC design, but adjusted to improve both the scale and
the hardness of the dataset. The key steps of the dataset con-
struction consist of (1) a carefully designed crowdsourcing
procedure, followed by (2) systematic bias reduction using a
novel AFLITE algorithm that generalizes human-detectable
word associations to machine-detectable embedding associ-
ations. The best state-of-the-art methods on WINOGRANDE
achieve 59.4 – 79.1%, which are ∼15-35% (absolute) below
human performance of 94.0%, depending on the amount of
the training data allowed (2% – 100% respectively).
Furthermore, we establish new state-of-the-art results on ﬁve
related benchmarks — WSC (→ 90.1%), DPR (→ 93.1%),
COPA(→ 90.6%), KnowRef (→ 85.6%), and Winogender
(→ 97.1%). These results have dual implications: on one hand,
they demonstrate the effectiveness of WINOGRANDE when
used as a resource for transfer learning. On the other hand,
they raise a concern that we are likely to be overestimating
the true capabilities of machine commonsense across all these
benchmarks. We emphasize the importance of algorithmic bias
reduction in existing and future benchmarks to mitigate such
overestimation.

1

Introduction

The Winograd Schema Challenge (WSC) (Levesque, Davis,
and Morgenstern 2011), proposed as an alternative to the
Turing Test (Turing 1950), has been used as a benchmark for
evaluating commonsense reasoning. WSC are designed to
be pronoun resolution problems (see examples in Table 1)
that are trivial for humans but hard for machines that merely

rely on statistical patterns without true capabilities of com-
monsense reasoning. However, recent advances in neural
language models have already reported around 90% accu-
racy on a variant of WSC dataset.1 This raises an important
question:

Have neural language models successfully acquired com-
monsense or are we overestimating the true capabilities of
machine commonsense?

This question about the potential overestimation leads to an-
other crucial question regarding potential unwanted biases
that the large-scale neural language models might be exploit-
ing, essentially solving the problems right, but for wrong rea-
sons. While WSC questions are expert-crafted, recent studies
have shown that they are nevertheless prone to incidental bi-
ases. Trichelair et al. (2018) have reported word-association
(13.5% of the cases, see Table 1 for examples) as well as
other types of dataset-speciﬁc biases. While such biases and
annotation artifacts are not apparent for individual instances,
they get introduced in the dataset as problem authors subcon-
sciously repeat similar problem-crafting strategies.

To investigate this question about the true estimation of
the machine commonsense capabilities, we introduce WINO-
GRANDE, a new dataset with 44k problems that are inspired
by the original design of WSC, but modiﬁed to improve both
the scale and hardness of the problems. The key steps in
WINOGRANDE construction consist of (1) a carefully de-
signed crowdsourcing procedure, followed by (2) a novel
algorithm AFLITE that generalizes human-detectable biases
based on word occurrences to machine-detectable biases
based on embedding occurrences. The key motivation of our
approach is that it is difﬁcult for humans to write problems
without accidentally inserting unwanted biases.

While humans ﬁnd WINOGRANDE problems trivial with
94% accuracy, best state-of-the-art results, including those
from RoBERTa (Liu et al. 2019) are considerably lower,
ranging between 59.4% - 79.1% depending on the amount
of training data provided (from 800 to 41k instances), which
falls 15 - 35% (absolute) below the human-level performance.

1https://github.com/pytorch/fairseq/tree/master/examples/
roberta. We note that this variant aggregates the original WSC,
PDP (Morgenstern, Davis, and Ortiz 2016) and additional PDP-style
examples, and recasts them