The Carbon Footprint of Machine Learning Training Will Plateau, Then Shrink
David Patterson1,2, Joseph Gonzalez2, Urs Hölzle1, Quoc Le1, Chen Liang1, Lluis-Miquel Munguia1,
Daniel Rothchild2, David So1, Maud Texier1, and Jeff Dean1

Abstract: Machine Learning (ML) workloads have rapidly grown in importance, but raised concerns
about their carbon footprint. Four best practices can reduce ML training energy by up to 100x and CO2
emissions up to 1000x. By following best practices, overall ML energy use (across research,
development, and production) held steady at <15% of Google’s total energy use for the past three years.
If the whole ML field were to adopt best practices, total carbon emissions from training would reduce.
Hence, we recommend that ML papers include emissions explicitly to foster competition on more than
just model quality. Estimates of emissions in papers that omitted them have been off 100x–100,000x, so
publishing emissions has the added benefit of ensuring accurate accounting. Given the importance of
climate change, we must get the numbers right to make certain that we work on its biggest challenges.

Keywords/Index terms: I.2.6.g Machine learning < I.2.6 Learning < I.2 Artificial Intelligence
< I Computing Methodologies, I.2.7 Natural Language Processing < I.2 Artificial Intelligence
< I Computing Methodologies, B.9 Power Management < B Hardware, C.1.3.i Neural nets
< C.1.3 Other Architecture Styles < C.1 Processor Architectures < C Computer Systems Organization,
C.4 Performance of Systems < C Computer Systems Organization

1. Introduction

Over the past few years, a growing number of papers have highlighted the carbon emissions of machine
learning (ML) workloads. While this work has been instrumental in rightfully elevating the discussion
around carbon emissions in ML, some studies significantly overestimated actual emissions, which in turn
led to worrisome extrapolations [1,2]:

The answers are grim: Training such a model would cost US$100 billion and would produce as
much carbon emissions as New York City does in a month.

Recent work highlights the complexities and nuances associated with carbon accounting for ML and
more broadly computing workloads [3, 4, 5]. In this paper, we

● Describe four practices that reduce the energy usage and carbon emissions of ML workloads by

orders of magnitude relative to traditional choices;

● Show that these practices help keep ML under 15% of Google’s total energy use for the past

three years; and

● Explain why published faulty estimates and extrapolations are 100x–100,000x higher than the

real carbon footprints.

Responsible AI is a broad topic; we focus on a single issue that has received much attention from the

ML community and public: carbon emissions from ML training. Emissions can be classified as

● Operational, the energy cost of operating the ML hardware including datacenter overheads, or

● Lifecycle, which additionally includes the embedded carbon emitted during the manufacturing of

all components involved, from chips to datacenter buildings.

Like prior work we focus on operational emissions; estimating lifecycle emissions is a larger, future study.

We identified best practices that can reduce energy by up to 100x and carbon emissions by up to

1000x compared to following orthodox choices (“4Ms”):

1 Google
2 University of California, Berkeley

1

1. Model. Selecting efficient ML model architectures while advancing ML quality, such as sparse

models versus dense modes, can reduce computation by factors of ~5–10.

2. Machine. Using processors optimized for ML training such as TPUs or recent GPUs (e.g., V100
or A100), versus general-purpose processors, can improve performance/Watt by factors of 2–5.

3. Mechanization. Computing in the Cloud rather than on premise improves datacenter energy

efficiency3, reducing energy costs by a factor of 1.4–2.

4. Map. Moreover, Cloud computing lets ML practitioners pick the location with the cleanest energy4,

further reducing the gross carbon footprint by factors of 5–105.

Figure 1. Reduction in gross CO2 emissions since 2017 from applying best practices (Section 3).
They show large end-to-end improvements, broken down into the 4Ms. Gross CO2 emissions here
excludes Google's carbon neutral and 100% renewable energy credits, and reflect Google's 24/7
CFE methodology [5].

Figure 1 illustrates how four good choices together reduce energy consumption by 83x and CO2
emissions by 747x over four years while maintaining the same quality. The original modeled estimate

3 The Cloud uses custom warehouses designed for energy efficiency, whereas on-premise datacenters are
inefficiently located in smaller, older spaces intended for other purposes. HPC datacenters are efficient, but can’t
enable shifting to green locations.
4 Most data transmission power is for the network equipment of the Internet even when idle [3]. In comparison,
shipping photons over fiber optics is relatively trivial.
5 Using a carbon-