9
1
0
2

v
o
N
4

]

Y
C
.
s
c
[

2
v
0
0
7
9
0
.
0
1
9
1
:
v
i
X
r
a

Quantifying the Carbon Emissions
of Machine Learning

Alexandre Lacoste∗
Element AI
allac@elementai.com

Alexandra Luccioni∗
Mila, Université de Montréal
luccionis@mila.quebec

Victor Schmidt∗
Mila, Université de Montréal
schmidtv@mila.quebec

Thomas Dandres
Polytechnique Montréal, CIRAIG
thomas.dandres@polymtl.ca

Abstract

From an environmental standpoint, there are a few crucial aspects of training a
neural network that have a major impact on the quantity of carbon that it emits.
These factors include: the location of the server used for training and the energy
grid that it uses, the length of the training procedure, and even the make and model
of hardware on which the training takes place. In order to approximate these
emissions, we present our Machine Learning Emissions Calculator, a tool for our
community to better understand the environmental impact of training ML models.
We accompany this tool with an explanation of the factors cited above, as well as
concrete actions that individual practitioners and organizations can take to mitigate
their carbon emissions.

1

Introduction

While a decade ago, only a few ML pioneers were training neural networks on GPUs (Graphical
Processing Units), in recent years powerful GPUs have become increasingly accessible and used
by ML practitioners worldwide. Furthermore, new models often need to beat existing challenges,
which entails training on more GPUs, with larger datasets, for a longer time. This expansion brings
with it ever-growing costs in terms of the energy needed to fuel it. This trend has been the subject
of recent studies aiming to evaluate the climate impact of AI, which have predominantly put the
focus on the environmental cost of training large-scale models connected to grids powered by fossil
fuels [1, 2]. While these models are not necessarily representative of common practice, we believe
that it is important to continue this conversation further and work towards deﬁning the tools and steps
that we need to assess the carbon emissions generated by the models we train, as well as to propose
ways to reduce those emissions.

In this work, we present our Machine Learning Emissions Calculator (https://mlco2.github.
io/impact/), a tool for our community to estimate the amount of carbon emissions produced by
training ML models. We accompany this tool with a presentation of key concepts and an explanation
of the factors impacting emissions. Finally, we end our article with some recommendations of best
practices for the overall ML research community, as well as for individual researchers.

∗equal contribution

Preprint. Under review.

 
 
 
 
 
 
2 Quantifying Carbon Emissions in Neural Network Training

In order to quantify carbon emissions, we use CO2-equivalents (CO2eq), which is a standardized
measure used to express the global-warming potential of various greenhouse gases as a single number,
i.e. as the amount of CO2 which would have the equivalent global warming impact [3]. We will
use this single metric to compare the factors and choices that impact overall amount of emissions
produced by training an ML model in the sections below.

2.1 Type of Energy Used

Practically speaking, it is hard to estimate exactly the amount of CO2eq emitted by a cloud server in
a given location because the information regarding the energy grid that it is connected to is rarely
publicly available. However, if we assume that all servers are connected to local grids at their
physical location, we are able to make an estimation of the amount of CO2eq that they emit using
public data sources [4, 5] . Therefore, in order to create our emissions calculator, we gathered data
regarding CO2eq emissions of different grid locations and cross-referenced them with known GPU
server locations from the three major cloud providers: Google Cloud Platform, Microsoft Azure and
Amazon Web Services 2. Our aim in doing this is to illustrate the degree of variability that exists
depending on the location of a given server. For instance, in Figure 1, we show the distribution and
variation in carbon emissions depending on geographical region. It can be noted that a large amount
of variation can be found within a single region; for instance, servers located in North America
can emit anywhere between 20g CO2eq/kWh in Quebec, Canada to 736.6g CO2eq/kWh in Iowa,
USA [5].

Figure 1: Variation of the Average Carbon Intensity of Servers Worldwide, by Region. (Vertical bars
represent regions with a single available data point.)

2.2 Computing Infrastructure and Training Time

Another, more subtle, factor in carbon emitted by a neural network is the computing infrastructure
used and training time of the model. In terms of performance the number of ﬂoating point operations
per second (FLOPS) of GPUs has been steadily increasing in recent years, from 100 Giga FLOPS per
second in 2004 to up to 15 Tera FLOPS per second in recent hardware [6]