Less is More: Parameter-Efficient Selection
of Intermediate Tasks for Transfer Learning

David Schulte, Felix Hamborg, Alan Akbik
Humboldt University of Berlin
davidsiriusschulte@gmail.com
{felix.hamborg, alan.akbik}@hu-berlin.de

4
2
0
2

t
c
O
9
1

]
L
C
.
s
c
[

1
v
8
4
1
5
1
.
0
1
4
2
:
v
i
X
r
a

Abstract

Intermediate task transfer learning can greatly
improve model performance. If, for example,
one has little training data for emotion detec-
tion, first fine-tuning a language model on a
sentiment classification dataset may improve
performance strongly. But which task to choose
for transfer learning? Prior methods produc-
ing useful task rankings are infeasible for large
source pools, as they require forward passes
through all source language models. We over-
come this by introducing Embedding Space
Maps (ESMs), light-weight neural networks
that approximate the effect of fine-tuning a lan-
guage model. We conduct the largest study on
NLP task transferability and task selection with
12k source-target pairs. We find that apply-
ing ESMs on a prior method reduces execution
time and disk space usage by factors of 10 and
278, respectively, while retaining high selection
performance (avg. regret@5 score of 2.95).

1

Introduction

The current default approach for supervised learn-
ing in NLP involves directly fine-tuning a pre-
trained transformer using labeled data of the target
task. However, prior work showed that in some
cases it is beneficial to perform two consecutive
fine-tunings in a row: first, on an intermediate task,
and then on the target task (Phang et al., 2018; Vu
et al., 2020). This may be particularly effective
when little training data exists for the target task,
while much exists for the intermediate task.

However, whether and how much performance
is gained with intermediate task transfer learning
heavily depends on the chosen intermediate task.
Worse, finding the best intermediate task for a
given target task is a non-trivial problem given the
large amount of labeled datasets that exist for NLP.
For instance, the HuggingFace Hub alone contains
more than 160k datasets and 700k models. This
renders an exhaustive search for the best possible

intermediary task infeasible. The problem of find-
ing promising intermediate tasks for a target task
is called intermediate task selection.1

Prior work investigates approaches for finding
suitable intermediate tasks given a source trans-
former LM and a target task (Achille et al., 2019;
Bassignana et al., 2022; Li et al., 2020; Nguyen
et al., 2020; Tran et al., 2019; Vu et al., 2020).
These approaches rely on the local availability of
(large) source models or a space-intense represen-
tation of source datasets. Methods also require
resource-intensive computation for each source-
target pair (Poth et al., 2021; You et al., 2021b).
Thus, most approaches are infeasible in real-world
scenarios, i.e., with large source pools and con-
strained resources. While the large pool of avail-
able models and datasets is a valuable resource,
user cannot optimally utilize it (You et al., 2021b).
This paper makes two contributions. First, we
propose Embedding Space Maps (ESMs), linear
transformations of the embedding space, to be used
in combination with LogME (You et al., 2021a), a
source selection method that achieves high selec-
tion performance but suffers from its dependency
on forward passes through each source model. We
overcome this by approximating the embeddings of
fine-tuned language models with ESMs. The result-
ing source selection method ESM-LogME reduces
execution time by a factor of 10 and disk space
usage by a factor of 278, and thus enables efficient
source selection also on large source pools.

Second, we compare the performance of ESM-
LogME to prior methods in the to date largest study
on transferability across NLP tasks with more than
1.5k source datasets from HuggingFace Hub and
8 target datasets across several task types and lan-
guages. The results show that ESM-LogME is the

1In contrast, source selection includes ranking source mod-
els of any kind, e.g., not only intermediate tasks (already
fine-tuned language models), but also only pre-trained mod-
els.

 
 
 
 
 
 
best-performing source selection method that is
feasible in real-world scenarios. We release source
code and all resources under the Apache 2 license.
Our Python package also allows to share and find
ESMs to facilitate efficient source selection among
researchers and practitioners. The repository is
available at: https://github.com/davidschulte/hf-
dataset-selector

2 Related Work

Transfer learning is a common paradigm in NLP.
With BERT, Devlin et al. (2019) propose encoders
that are trained on a large corpus and then fine-
tuned on individual target tasks. Phang et al. (2018)
show that language models can benefit from adding
an intermediate fine-tuning step. This procedure is
called intermediate task transfer learning. One of
its challenges is finding the right intermedia