3
2
0
2

n
u
J

5

]

V
C
.
s
c
[

4
v
4
9
7
6
0
.
9
0
2
2
:
v
i
X
r
a

Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2023

PALI: A JOINTLY-SCALED MULTILINGUAL
LANGUAGE-IMAGE MODEL

Xi Chen, Xiao Wang, Soravit Changpinyo, AJ Piergiovanni, Piotr Padlewski
Daniel Salz, Sebastian Goodman, Adam Grycner, Basil Mustafa, Lucas Beyer
Alexander Kolesnikov, Joan Puigcerver, Nan Ding, Keran Rong, Hassan Akbari
Gaurav Mishra, Linting Xue, Ashish Thapliyal, James Bradbury, Weicheng Kuo
Mojtaba Seyedhosseini, Chao Jia, Burcu Karagol Ayan, Carlos Riquelme
Andreas Steiner, Anelia Angelova, Xiaohua Zhai, Neil Houlsby, Radu Soricut
Google Research∗

ABSTRACT

Effective scaling and a flexible task interface enable large language models to excel
at many tasks. We present PaLI (Pathways Language and Image model), a model
that extends this approach to the joint modeling of language and vision. PaLI
generates text based on visual and textual inputs, and with this interface performs
many vision, language, and multimodal tasks, in many languages. To train PaLI,
we make use of large pre-trained encoder-decoder language models and Vision
Transformers (ViTs). This allows us to capitalize on their existing capabilities
and leverage the substantial cost of training them. We find that joint scaling of
the vision and language components is important. Since existing Transformers for
language are much larger than their vision counterparts, we train a large, 4-billion
parameter ViT (ViT-e) to quantify the benefits from even larger-capacity vision
models. To train PaLI, we create a large multilingual mix of pre-training tasks,
based on a new image-text training set containing 10B images and texts in over
100 languages. PaLI achieves state-of-the-art in multiple vision and language tasks
(such as captioning, visual question-answering, scene-text understanding), while
retaining a simple, modular, and scalable design.

1

INTRODUCTION

Increasing neural network capacity has been a successful trend in the modeling of language and
vision tasks. On the language side, models such as T5 (Raffel et al., 2020), GPT-3 (Brown et al.,
2020), Megatron-Turing (Shoeybi et al., 2019), GLaM (Du et al., 2022), Chinchilla (Hoffmann et al.,
2022), and PaLM (Chowdhery et al., 2022) have shown significant advantages from training large
Transformers on large amounts text data. On the vision side, CNNs (Mahajan et al., 2018; Huang
et al., 2019; Kolesnikov et al., 2020), Vision Transformers (Dosovitskiy et al., 2021), and other
models (Tolstikhin et al., 2021; Riquelme et al., 2021) have seen similar benefits from scale (Zhai
et al., 2022a), albeit to a lesser extent than in language. Language-and-vision modeling has followed
a similar trend, e.g., SimVLM (Wang et al., 2021), Florence (Yuan et al., 2021), CoCa (Yu et al.,
2022), GIT (Wang et al., 2022a), BEiT-3 (Wang et al., 2022c), and Flamingo (Alayrac et al., 2022).

We introduce PaLI, a model that performs image-only, language-only, and image+language tasks
across many languages, using a single “image-and-text to text” interface. A key characteristic of
PaLI is a more balanced parameter share between the language and vision components, with more
capacity to the vision backbone yielding large gains in performance. Another key ingredient to PaLI
is the reuse of large unimodal backbones for language and vision modeling, in order to transfer
existing capabilities and reduce training cost. On the language side, we reuse the 13B-parameter
model mT5-XXL (Xue et al., 2021), which already packages language understanding and generation
capabilities. We show that these capabilities are maintained and extended into a multimodal setting.
On the vision side, in addition to reusing the 2B-parameter ViT-G model (Zhai et al., 2022a), we

∗Correspondence: pali-communications@google.com

1

 
 
 
 
 
 
Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2023

train a 4B-parameter model, which we call ViT-e (“enormous”). ViT-e achieves good performance on
image-only tasks, such as 90.9% ImageNet fine-tuning, and 84.9% on ObjectNet (Barbu et al., 2019).

We find benefits from jointly scaling both the vision and the language components, with vision
providing a better return on investment (accuracy improvement per parameter/FLOP). As a result,
the capacity of our largest PaLI model, PaLI-17B, is distributed relatively equitably between the two
modalities, with the ViT-e component accounting for about 25% of the total parameter count. This
is not always the case for prior work in large-capacity vision and language modeling (Wang et al.,
2022a; Alayrac et al., 2022), due to the prior scale mismatch between vision and language backbones.
We enable knowledge-sharing between multiple image and/or language tasks by casting them into a
generalized VQA-like task. We frame all tasks using an “image+query to answer” modeling interface,
in which both the query and answer are expressed as text tokens. This allows PaLI to capitalize on
transfer learning across tasks