3
2
0
2

t
c
O
0
1

]
L
C
.
s
c
[

1
v
5
2
8
6
0
.
0
1
3
2
:
v
i
X
r
a

Mistral 7B

Albert Q. Jiang, Alexandre Sablayrolles, Arthur Mensch, Chris Bamford,
Devendra Singh Chaplot, Diego de las Casas, Florian Bressand, Gianna Lengyel,
Guillaume Lample, Lucile Saulnier, Lélio Renard Lavaud, Marie-Anne Lachaux,
Pierre Stock, Teven Le Scao, Thibaut Lavril, Thomas Wang, Timothée Lacroix,
William El Sayed

Abstract

We introduce Mistral 7B, a 7–billion-parameter language model engineered for
superior performance and efficiency. Mistral 7B outperforms the best open 13B
model (Llama 2) across all evaluated benchmarks, and the best released 34B
model (Llama 1) in reasoning, mathematics, and code generation. Our model
leverages grouped-query attention (GQA) for faster inference, coupled with sliding
window attention (SWA) to effectively handle sequences of arbitrary length with a
reduced inference cost. We also provide a model fine-tuned to follow instructions,
Mistral 7B – Instruct, that surpasses Llama 2 13B – chat model both on human and
automated benchmarks. Our models are released under the Apache 2.0 license.
Code: https://github.com/mistralai/mistral-src
Webpage: https://mistral.ai/news/announcing-mistral-7b/

1

Introduction

In the rapidly evolving domain of Natural Language Processing (NLP), the race towards higher model
performance often necessitates an escalation in model size. However, this scaling tends to increase
computational costs and inference latency, thereby raising barriers to deployment in practical,
real-world scenarios. In this context, the search for balanced models delivering both high-level
performance and efficiency becomes critically essential. Our model, Mistral 7B, demonstrates that
a carefully designed language model can deliver high performance while maintaining an efficient
inference. Mistral 7B outperforms the previous best 13B model (Llama 2, [26]) across all tested
benchmarks, and surpasses the best 34B model (LLaMa 34B, [25]) in mathematics and code
generation. Furthermore, Mistral 7B approaches the coding performance of Code-Llama 7B [20],
without sacrificing performance on non-code related benchmarks.

Mistral 7B leverages grouped-query attention (GQA) [1], and sliding window attention (SWA) [6, 3].
GQA significantly accelerates the inference speed, and also reduces the memory requirement during
decoding, allowing for higher batch sizes hence higher throughput, a crucial factor for real-time
applications. In addition, SWA is designed to handle longer sequences more effectively at a reduced
computational cost, thereby alleviating a common limitation in LLMs. These attention mechanisms
collectively contribute to the enhanced performance and efficiency of Mistral 7B.

 
 
 
 
 
 
Mistral 7B is released under the Apache 2.0 license. This release is accompanied by a reference
implementation1 facilitating easy deployment either locally or on cloud platforms such as AWS, GCP,
or Azure using the vLLM [17] inference server and SkyPilot 2. Integration with Hugging Face 3 is
also streamlined for easier integration. Moreover, Mistral 7B is crafted for ease of fine-tuning across
a myriad of tasks. As a demonstration of its adaptability and superior performance, we present a chat
model fine-tuned from Mistral 7B that significantly outperforms the Llama 2 13B – Chat model.

Mistral 7B takes a significant step in balancing the goals of getting high performance while keeping
large language models efficient. Through our work, our aim is to help the community create more
affordable, efficient, and high-performing language models that can be used in a wide range of
real-world applications.

2 Architectural details

Figure 1: Sliding Window Attention. The number of operations in vanilla attention is quadratic in the sequence
length, and the memory increases linearly with the number of tokens. At inference time, this incurs higher
latency and smaller throughput due to reduced cache availability. To alleviate this issue, we use sliding window
attention: each token can attend to at most W tokens from the previous layer (here, W = 3). Note that tokens
outside the sliding window still influence next word prediction. At each attention layer, information can move
forward by W tokens. Hence, after k attention layers, information can move forward by up to k × W tokens.

Mistral 7B is based on a transformer architecture [27]. The main
parameters of the architecture are summarized in Table 1. Compared
to Llama, it introduces a few changes that we summarize below.

Sliding Window Attention. SWA exploits the stacked layers of a trans-
former to attend information beyond the window size W . The hidden
state in position i of the layer k, hi, attends to all hidden states from
the previous layer with positions between i − W and i. Recursively,
hi can access tokens from the input layer at a distance of up to W × k
tokens, as illustrated in Figure 1. At the last layer, using a window size
of W = 4096, we have a theo