1
2
0
2

v
o
N
8
1

]

G
L
.
s
c
[

2
v
8
6
1
4
1
.
0
1
1
2
:
v
i
X
r
a

Training Veriﬁers to Solve Math Word Problems

Karl Cobbe∗

Vineet Kosaraju∗

Mohammad Bavarian

Mark Chen

Heewoo Jun

(cid:32)Lukasz Kaiser

Matthias Plappert

Jerry Tworek

Jacob Hilton

Reiichiro Nakano

Christopher Hesse

John Schulman

OpenAI

Abstract

State-of-the-art language models can match human performance on
many tasks, but they still struggle to robustly perform multi-step mathe-
matical reasoning. To diagnose the failures of current models and support
research, we introduce GSM8K, a dataset of 8.5K high quality linguisti-
cally diverse grade school math word problems. We ﬁnd that even the
largest transformer models fail to achieve high test performance, despite
the conceptual simplicity of this problem distribution. To increase per-
formance, we propose training veriﬁers to judge the correctness of model
completions. At test time, we generate many candidate solutions and
select the one ranked highest by the veriﬁer. We demonstrate that ver-
iﬁcation signiﬁcantly improves performance on GSM8K, and we provide
strong empirical evidence that veriﬁcation scales more eﬀectively with
increased data than a ﬁnetuning baseline.

1

Introduction

In recent years,
large language models have demonstrated impressive skills
across many diverse tasks (Wang et al., 2019; Brown et al., 2020). Kaplan
et al. (2020) describe the consistent beneﬁts of increasing model size, character-
izing scaling trends that hold across many orders of magnitude. However, even
the largest models falter when required to perform multi-step mathematical rea-
soning (Hendrycks et al., 2021). Model samples frequently contain catastrophic
mistakes, even after the model has been appropriately ﬁnetuned. Mathematical
reasoning thus reveals a critical weakness in modern language models.

One signiﬁcant challenge in mathematical reasoning is the high sensitivity
to individual mistakes (Shen et al., 2021a). When generating a solution, au-
toregressive models have no mechanism to correct their own errors. Solutions
that veer oﬀ-course quickly become unrecoverable. If we rely purely on genera-
tive methods and extrapolate from current trends, we will require an exorbitant

∗Equal contribution. Correspondence to: Karl Cobbe <karl@openai.com>, Vineet

Kosaraju <vineet@openai.com>

1

 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 1: Three example problems from GSM8K. Calculation annotations are
highlighted in red.

parameter count to achieve even moderate performance on distributions as chal-
lenging as the MATH dataset (Hendrycks et al., 2021). This evidence strongly
motivates the search for methods with more favorable scaling laws.

We propose training veriﬁers to evaluate the correctness of model generated
solutions, similar to concurrent work by Shen et al. (2021a). At test time, we
sample a ﬁxed number of candidate solutions and select the solution ranked
highest by the veriﬁer. Veriﬁers beneﬁt both from their inherent optionality
and from veriﬁcation being a simpler task than generation in general.

To facilitate research, we are releasing GSM8K, a dataset of 8.5K high quality
problems at the grade school math level. We designed this dataset to have high
linguistic diversity while relying on relatively simple grade school math concepts.
State-of-the-art language models struggle to achieve high performance on this
dataset, primarily due to the high diversity among problems. At the same time,
GSM8K solutions depend only on elementary concepts, so achieving high test
performance is a tractable goal.

Our main contributions are as follows:

1. We present a curated dataset of 8.5K grade school math questions and nat-
ural language solutions, useful for probing the informal reasoning ability
of large language models.

2. We show that, compared to a ﬁnetuning baseline, the use of veriﬁers results
in approximately the same performance boost as a 30x model size increase,
and that veriﬁers scale signiﬁcantly better with increased data.

3. We show that dropout acts as a strong regularizer, signiﬁcantly improving

performance for both ﬁnetuning and veriﬁcation.

2

2 Dataset

GSM8K consists of 8.5K high quality grade school math problems created by
human problem writers. We segmented these into 7.5K training problems and
1K test problems. These problems take between 2 and 8 steps to solve, and
solutions primarily involve performing a sequence of elementary calculations
using basic arithmetic operations (+ − ×÷) to reach the ﬁnal answer. A bright
middle school student should be able to solve every problem.

We created GSM8K based on the following design principles.

• High Quality We avoid error-prone scraping procedures and instead rely
on human workers to create problems. After performing extensive quality
control based on workers’ answer agreement, we estimate that less than 2
percent of problems contain breaking errors.

• High Diversity We strive for high diversity among problems. We ac-
tively avoi