4
2
0
2

r
a

M
8
2

]

G
L
.
s
c
[

1
v
2
2
5
9
1
.
3
0
4
2
:
v
i
X
r
a

Model Stock: All we need is just a few fine-tuned
models

Dong-Hwan Jang⋆, Sangdoo Yun, and Dongyoon Han

NAVER AI Lab

Abstract. This paper introduces an efficient fine-tuning method for
large pre-trained models, offering strong in-distribution (ID) and out-of-
distribution (OOD) performance. Breaking away from traditional prac-
tices that need a multitude of fine-tuned models for averaging, our ap-
proach employs significantly fewer models to achieve final weights yet
yield superior accuracy. Drawing from key insights in the weight space
of fine-tuned weights, we uncover a strong link between the performance
and proximity to the center of weight space. Based on this, we introduce
a method that approximates a center-close weight using only two fine-
tuned models, applicable during or after training. Our innovative layer-
wise weight averaging technique surpasses state-of-the-art model meth-
ods such as Model Soup, utilizing only two fine-tuned models. This strat-
egy can be aptly coined Model Stock, highlighting its reliance on selecting
a minimal number of models to draw a more optimized-averaged model.
We demonstrate the efficacy of Model Stock with fine-tuned models based
upon pre-trained CLIP architectures, achieving remarkable performance
on both ID and OOD tasks on the standard benchmarks, all while barely
bringing extra computational demands. Our code and pre-trained models
are available at https://github.com/naver-ai/model-stock.

1

Introduction

Pre-train/fine-tune paradigm [15, 19, 29, 32, 33] has proven to be a strong frame-
work for training models to reach state-of-the-art performance. This approach,
especially pivotal in fine-tuning pre-trained models, involves models acquiring
general knowledge during pre-training and task-specific knowledge during fine-
tuning. How we perform a fine-tuning stage is crucial, affecting task performance
and robustness against distribution shifts.

Recent advancements, notably Model Soup [32], which merges weights from
multiple fine-tuned models trained under different training setups, have shown
impressive performance without increasing inference costs. This method is be-
lieved to be effective because these models often reside in the same loss basin,
and their merging results in a lower and flat loss basin. However, Model Soup’s
requirement for multiple fine-tuned models (more than dozens) raises concerns

⋆ Work done during an internship at NAVER AI Lab.
Correspondence to Sangdoo Yun and Dongyoon Han.

 
 
 
 
 
 
2

Jang et al.

Fig. 1: Model Stock vs. Model Soup. Model Stock consistently enjoys improved
accuracy on ImageNet (x-axis) and distribution shift benchmarks (y-axis) against indi-
vidual fine-tuned models (gray circles). We plot WiSE-FT [33] curves to each fine-tuned
model, highlighting Model Stock’s better performance on distribution shifts compared
to Model Soup [32]. Note that Model Stock has much smaller computational costs
than Model Soups (24× smaller), i.e., Model Stock requires two fine-tuning procedures,
whereas Model Soups are leveraging 48 various fine-tuned models in this experiment.

about efficiency and practicality in general scenarios where the models need to
be prepared from scratch. Thus, our question is: Is there an efficient way to
achieve an effective merged weight from very few fine-tuned models?

We initially explore the dynamics of fine-tuned weights under the simplest
scenario: varying the random seeds while maintaining the other training setups.
It reveals that the fine-tuned weights with different random seeds reside on a very
thin shell layer-wise during and after training. We then delve into the impact of
a model-soup-like weight averaging approach. Our findings show that the closer
proximity of the averaged weights correlates with improved In-Distribution (ID)
and Out-Of-Distribution (OOD) performance.

Building upon the findings, we propose a novel approach of fine-tuning method
coined Model Stock, analogous to chicken stock in cooking, distinguishing it
from what Model Soup intended. Now, the answer to our question is indeed affir-
mative: Model Stock approximates the merged weight using just a few fine-tuned
models, leveraging the weight space’s geometric properties and a pre-trained
model’s anchoring effect. This strategy offers a more computationally efficient
alternative to the labor-intensive averaging of fine-tuned models, streamlining
the process while enhancing model performance. Fig. 1 illustrates our brief com-
parison of Model Stock vs. Model Soup [32]. We reproduce the Model Soup
experiments1 based on the CLIP ViT-B/32 initialization by fine-tuning 48 mod-
els with various hyper-parameters, which is defined as zero-shot initialization

1 We follow the standard grid hyper-parameter sweep [32], fine-tuning for 10 epochs.
Our results align with those presented in Fig. D.1 (right) of the original paper [32].

6468727680ImageNet accura