3
2
0
2

p
e
S
8
1

]
L
C
.
s
c
[

2
v
4
6
3
6
0
.
4
0
3
2
:
v
i
X
r
a

AGIEval: A Human-Centric Benchmark for
Evaluating Foundation Models

Wanjun Zhong∗, Ruixiang Cui∗, Yiduo Guo, Yaobo Liang, Shuai Lu, Yanlin Wang
Amin Saied, Weizhu Chen and Nan Duan
Microsoft
{t-wzhong, v-ruicui, v-yiduoguo, yaobo.liang, shuailu}@microsoft.com
{yanlwang, Amin.Saied, wzchen, nanduan}@microsoft.com

Abstract

Evaluating the general abilities of foundation models to tackle human-level tasks is
a vital aspect of their development and application in the pursuit of Artificial Gen-
eral Intelligence (AGI). Traditional benchmarks, which rely on artificial datasets,
may not accurately represent human-level capabilities. In this paper, we introduce
AGIEval, a novel benchmark specifically designed to assess foundation model in
the context of human-centric standardized exams, such as college entrance exams,
law school admission tests, math competitions, and lawyer qualification tests. We
evaluate several state-of-the-art foundation models, including GPT-4, ChatGPT,
and Text-Davinci-003, using this benchmark. Impressively, GPT-4 surpasses aver-
age human performance on SAT, LSAT, and math competitions, attaining a 95%
accuracy rate on the SAT Math test and a 92.5% accuracy on the English test
of the Chinese national college entrance exam. This demonstrates the extraordi-
nary performance of contemporary foundation models. In contrast, we also find
that GPT-4 is less proficient in tasks that require complex reasoning or specific
domain knowledge. Our comprehensive analyses of model capabilities (understand-
ing, knowledge, reasoning, and calculation) reveal these models’ strengths and
limitations, providing valuable insights into future directions for enhancing their
general capabilities. By concentrating on tasks pertinent to human cognition and
decision-making, our benchmark delivers a more meaningful and robust evaluation
of foundation models’ performance in real-world scenarios2.

1

Introduction

In recent years, large foundation models, such as the latest large language models (LLMs) ChatGPT3
and GPT-4 (OpenAI, 2023), have exhibited remarkable versatility and adaptability, with plethora of
applications spanning various domains as a decision-making assistant, from processing daily events
to assisting in specialized fields such as law, medicine, and finance. With these advancements, AI
systems are inching closer to achieving Artificial General Intelligence (AGI). As these AI systems
continue to evolve and become more integrated into our daily lives, it is essential to effectively assess
their general abilities in handling human-centric tasks, identify potential shortcomings, and ensure
that they can handle complex, human-centric tasks effectively. Moreover, evaluating their reasoning
abilities is also crucial to ensure their reliability and trustworthiness across diverse settings.

Traditional benchmarks for evaluating foundation models often fall short in providing an accurate
assessment of their general abilities in handling human-level tasks. This is primarily due to the use

∗indicates equal contribution. Yaobo Liang and Nan Duan are the corresponding authors.
2The data, code, and all model outputs are released in https://github.com/ruixiangcui/AGIEval
3https://chat.openai.com/chat

 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 1: The performance of foundation models (Text-Davinci-003, ChatGPT, and GPT-4) was
evaluated on several human-centric exams under zero-shot learning with a Chain-of-Thought (CoT)
prompting setting. Human performance (avg.) refers to the average performance of all test takers,
while human performance (top) refers to the performance of the top 1% of test takers, except for the
lawyer qualification test which uses the top 10%. Our results show that, compared to the averaged
human performance, GPT-4 achieves better scores on the SAT, LSAT, and math competitions.

of artificial datasets and a lack of emphasis on real-world tasks that require human-like cognitive
capabilities. Moreover, these benchmarks often focus on tasks that do not truly represent the
complexities and nuances of real-world human cognition and decision-making, leading to a skewed
evaluation of models’ capabilities and limiting their ability to provide meaningful insights into the
models’ real-world applicability. Consequently, there is a growing need for a more human-centric
benchmark that allows for a robust evaluation of foundation model in the context of tasks that are
relevant to human reasoning and problem-solving.

In this paper, we introduce a human-centric benchmark AGIEval specifically designed to evaluate
the general abilities of foundation models in tasks pertinent to human cognition and problem-solving.
This benchmark is derived from official, public, and high-standard admission and qualification
exams intended for general human test-takers, such as general college admission tests (e.g., Chinese
College Entrance Exam (Gaokao) and American SAT), law sch