Learning Transferable Visual Models From Natural Language Supervision

Alec Radford * 1 Jong Wook Kim * 1 Chris Hallacy 1 Aditya Ramesh 1 Gabriel Goh 1 Sandhini Agarwal 1
Girish Sastry 1 Amanda Askell 1 Pamela Mishkin 1 Jack Clark 1 Gretchen Krueger 1 Ilya Sutskever 1

1
2
0
2

b
e
F
6
2

]

V
C
.
s
c
[

1
v
0
2
0
0
0
.
3
0
1
2
:
v
i
X
r
a

Abstract

State-of-the-art computer vision systems are
trained to predict a ﬁxed set of predetermined
object categories. This restricted form of super-
vision limits their generality and usability since
additional labeled data is needed to specify any
other visual concept. Learning directly from raw
text about images is a promising alternative which
leverages a much broader source of supervision.
We demonstrate that the simple pre-training task
of predicting which caption goes with which im-
age is an efﬁcient and scalable way to learn SOTA
image representations from scratch on a dataset
of 400 million (image, text) pairs collected from
the internet. After pre-training, natural language
is used to reference learned visual concepts (or
describe new ones) enabling zero-shot transfer
of the model to downstream tasks. We study
the performance of this approach by benchmark-
ing on over 30 different existing computer vi-
sion datasets, spanning tasks such as OCR, ac-
tion recognition in videos, geo-localization, and
many types of ﬁne-grained object classiﬁcation.
The model transfers non-trivially to most tasks
and is often competitive with a fully supervised
baseline without the need for any dataset spe-
ciﬁc training. For instance, we match the ac-
curacy of the original ResNet-50 on ImageNet
zero-shot without needing to use any of the 1.28
million training examples it was trained on. We
release our code and pre-trained model weights at
https://github.com/OpenAI/CLIP.

1. Introduction and Motivating Work

Pre-training methods which learn directly from raw text
have revolutionized NLP over the last few years (Dai &
Le, 2015; Peters et al., 2018; Howard & Ruder, 2018; Rad-
ford et al., 2018; Devlin et al., 2018; Raffel et al., 2019).

*Equal contribution 1OpenAI, San Francisco, CA 94110, USA.

Correspondence to: <{alec, jongwook}@openai.com>.

Task-agnostic objectives such as autoregressive and masked
language modeling have scaled across many orders of mag-
nitude in compute, model capacity, and data, steadily im-
proving capabilities. The development of “text-to-text” as
a standardized input-output interface (McCann et al., 2018;
Radford et al., 2019; Raffel et al., 2019) has enabled task-
agnostic architectures to zero-shot transfer to downstream
datasets removing the need for specialized output heads or
dataset speciﬁc customization. Flagship systems like GPT-3
(Brown et al., 2020) are now competitive across many tasks
with bespoke models while requiring little to no dataset
speciﬁc training data.

These results suggest that the aggregate supervision acces-
sible to modern pre-training methods within web-scale col-
lections of text surpasses that of high-quality crowd-labeled
NLP datasets. However, in other ﬁelds such as computer
vision it is still standard practice to pre-train models on
crowd-labeled datasets such as ImageNet (Deng et al., 2009).
Could scalable pre-training methods which learn directly
from web text result in a similar breakthrough in computer
vision? Prior work is encouraging.

Over 20 years ago Mori et al. (1999) explored improving
content based image retrieval by training a model to pre-
dict the nouns and adjectives in text documents paired with
images. Quattoni et al. (2007) demonstrated it was possi-
ble to learn more data efﬁcient image representations via
manifold learning in the weight space of classiﬁers trained
to predict words in captions associated with images. Sri-
vastava & Salakhutdinov (2012) explored deep represen-
tation learning by training multimodal Deep Boltzmann
Machines on top of low-level image and text tag features.
Joulin et al. (2016) modernized this line of work and demon-
strated that CNNs trained to predict words in image cap-
tions learn useful image representations. They converted
the title, description, and hashtag metadata of images in the
YFCC100M dataset (Thomee et al., 2016) into a bag-of-
words multi-label classiﬁcation task and showed that pre-
training AlexNet (Krizhevsky et al., 2012) to predict these
labels learned representations which preformed similarly
to ImageNet-based pre-training on transfer tasks. Li et al.
(2017) then extended this approach to predicting phrase n-
grams in addition to individual words and demonstrated the
ability of their system to zero-shot transfer to other image

 
 
 
 
 
 
Learning Transferable Visual Models From Natural Language Supervision

2

Figure 1. Summary of our approach. While standard image models jointly train an image feature extractor and a linear classiﬁer to predict
some label, CLIP jointly trains an image encoder and a text encoder to predict the correct pairings of