3
2
0
2

p
e
S
9
1

]

G
L
.
s
c
[

4
v
3
8
6
0
1
.
0
1
9
1
:
v
i
X
r
a

Journal of Machine Learning Research 21 (2020) 1-67

Submitted 1/20; Revised 6/20; Published 6/20

Exploring the Limits of Transfer Learning with a Unified
Text-to-Text Transformer

Colin Raffel∗
Noam Shazeer∗
Adam Roberts∗
Katherine Lee∗

Sharan Narang

Michael Matena

Yanqi Zhou

Wei Li

Peter J. Liu

Google, Mountain View, CA 94043, USA

Editor: Ivan Titov

craffel@gmail.com

noam@google.com

adarob@google.com

katherinelee@google.com

sharannarang@google.com

mmatena@google.com

yanqiz@google.com

mweili@google.com

peterjliu@google.com

Abstract
Transfer learning, where a model is first pre-trained on a data-rich task before being fine-
tuned on a downstream task, has emerged as a powerful technique in natural language
processing (NLP). The effectiveness of transfer learning has given rise to a diversity of
approaches, methodology, and practice. In this paper, we explore the landscape of transfer
learning techniques for NLP by introducing a unified framework that converts all text-based
language problems into a text-to-text format. Our systematic study compares pre-training
objectives, architectures, unlabeled data sets, transfer approaches, and other factors on
dozens of language understanding tasks. By combining the insights from our exploration
with scale and our new “Colossal Clean Crawled Corpus”, we achieve state-of-the-art results
on many benchmarks covering summarization, question answering, text classification, and
more. To facilitate future work on transfer learning for NLP, we release our data set,
pre-trained models, and code.1

Keywords:
based models, deep learning

transfer learning, natural language processing, multi-task learning, attention-

1. Introduction

Training a machine learning model to perform natural language processing (NLP) tasks
often requires that the model can process text in a way that is amenable to downstream
learning. This can be loosely viewed as developing general-purpose knowledge that allows
the model to “understand” text. This knowledge can range from low-level (e.g. the spelling

∗. Equal contribution. A description of each author’s contribution is available in Appendix A. Correspondence

to craffel@gmail.com.

1. https://github.com/google-research/text-to-text-transfer-transformer

©2020 Colin Raffel, Noam Shazeer, Adam Roberts, Katherine Lee, Sharan Narang, Michael Matena, Yanqi Zhou, Wei
Li, and Peter J. Liu.

License: CC-BY 4.0, see https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/. Attribution requirements are provided at
http://jmlr.org/papers/v21/20-074.html.

 
 
 
 
 
 
Raffel, Shazeer, Roberts, Lee, Narang, Matena, Zhou, Li and Liu

or meaning of words) to high-level (e.g. that a tuba is too large to fit in most backpacks).
In modern machine learning practice, providing this knowledge is rarely done explicitly;
instead, it is often learned as part of an auxiliary task. For example, a historically common
approach is to use word vectors (Mikolov et al., 2013b,a; Pennington et al., 2014) to map
word identities to a continuous representation where, ideally, similar words map to similar
vectors. These vectors are often learned through an objective that, for example, encourages
co-occurring words to be positioned nearby in the continuous space (Mikolov et al., 2013b).
Recently, it has become increasingly common to pre-train the entire model on a data-rich
task. Ideally, this pre-training causes the model to develop general-purpose abilities and
knowledge that can then be transferred to downstream tasks. In applications of transfer
learning to computer vision (Oquab et al., 2014; Jia et al., 2014; Huh et al., 2016; Yosinski
et al., 2014), pre-training is typically done via supervised learning on a large labeled data set
like ImageNet (Russakovsky et al., 2015; Deng et al., 2009). In contrast, modern techniques
for transfer learning in NLP often pre-train using unsupervised learning on unlabeled data.
This approach has recently been used to obtain state-of-the-art results in many of the most
common NLP benchmarks (Devlin et al., 2018; Yang et al., 2019; Dong et al., 2019; Liu
et al., 2019c; Lan et al., 2019). Beyond its empirical strength, unsupervised pre-training
for NLP is particularly attractive because unlabeled text data is available en masse thanks
to the Internet—for example, the Common Crawl project2 produces about 20TB of text
data extracted from web pages each month. This is a natural fit for neural networks, which
have been shown to exhibit remarkable scalability, i.e. it is often possible to achieve better
performance simply by training a larger model on a larger data set (Hestness et al., 2017;
Shazeer et al., 2017; Jozefowicz et al., 2016; Mahajan et al., 2018; Radford et al., 2019;
Shazeer et al., 2018; Huang et al., 2018b; Keskar et al., 2019a).

This synergy has resulted in a great deal of recent work developing transfer learning
methodology for NLP, which has produced a wi