COMMONSENSEQA: A Question Answering Challenge Targeting
Commonsense Knowledge

Alon Talmor∗∗,1,2

Jonathan Herzig∗,1

Nicholas Lourie2

Jonathan Berant1,2

1School of Computer Science, Tel-Aviv University
2Allen Institute for Artiﬁcial Intelligence
{alontalmor@mail,jonathan.herzig@cs,joberant@cs}.tau.ac.il, nicholasl@allenai.org

9
1
0
2

r
a

M
5
1

]
L
C
.
s
c
[

2
v
7
3
9
0
0
.
1
1
8
1
:
v
i
X
r
a

Abstract

When answering a question, people often draw
upon their rich world knowledge in addi-
tion to the particular context. Recent work
has focused primarily on answering questions
given some relevant document or context,
and required very little general background.
To investigate question answering with prior
knowledge, we present COMMONSENSEQA:
a challenging new dataset for commonsense
question answering. To capture common sense
beyond associations, we extract from CON-
CEPTNET (Speer et al., 2017) multiple target
concepts that have the same semantic relation
to a single source concept. Crowd-workers
are asked to author multiple-choice questions
that mention the source concept and discrim-
inate in turn between each of the target con-
cepts. This encourages workers to create ques-
tions with complex semantics that often re-
quire prior knowledge. We create 12,247 ques-
tions through this procedure and demonstrate
the difﬁculty of our task with a large number
of strong baselines. Our best baseline is based
on BERT-large (Devlin et al., 2018) and ob-
tains 56% accuracy, well below human perfor-
mance, which is 89%.

1

Introduction

When humans answer questions, they capitalize
on their common sense and background knowl-
edge about spatial relations, causes and effects,
scientiﬁc facts and social conventions. For in-
stance, given the question “Where was Simon
when he heard the lawn mower?”, one can infer
that the lawn mower is close to Simon, and that
it is probably outdoors and situated at street level.
This type of knowledge seems trivial for humans,
but is still out of the reach of current natural lan-
guage understanding (NLU) systems.

∗ The authors contributed equally

Figure 1:
(a) A source concept (in green) and three tar-
get concepts (in blue) are sampled from CONCEPTNET (b)
Crowd-workers generate three questions, each having one of
the target concepts for its answer ((cid:51)), while the other two tar-
gets are not ((cid:55)). Then, for each question, workers choose an
additional distractor from CONCEPTNET (in red), and author
one themselves (in purple).

Work on Question Answering (QA) has mostly
focused on answering factoid questions, where the
answer can be found in a given context with lit-
tle need for commonsense knowledge (Hermann
et al., 2015; Rajpurkar et al., 2016; Nguyen et al.,
2016; Joshi et al., 2017). Small benchmarks such
as the Winograd Scheme Challenge (Levesque,
2011) and COPA (Roemmele et al., 2011), tar-
geted common sense more directly, but have been
difﬁcult to collect at scale.

Recently, efforts have been invested in devel-
oping large-scale datasets for commonsense rea-
soning.
In SWAG (Zellers et al., 2018b), given
a textual description of an event, a probable sub-
sequent event needs to be inferred. However, it
has been quickly realized that models trained on
large amounts of unlabeled data (Devlin et al.,

riverwaterfallbridgevalleya)Sample ConceptNetfor speciﬁc subgraphsb)Crowd source corresponding natural language questions and two additional distractorsWhere on a rivercan you hold a cup upright to catch water on a sunny day?✔‍‍‍‍waterfall,   ✘bridge,   ✘valley,✘pebble,✘mountainWhere can I stand on a riverto see water falling without getting wet? ✘waterfall,   ✔bridge,   ✘valley,✘stream,✘bottomAtLocationI’m crossing the river, my feet are wet but my body is dry, where am I? ✘waterfall,   ✘bridge,   ✔valley,✘bank,✘islandpebblestreambankAtLocationAtLocationcanyonAtLocationAtLocationAtLocationAtLocation… 
 
 
 
 
 
2018) capture well this type of information and
performance on SWAG is already at human level.
VCR (Zellers et al., 2018a) is another very re-
cent attempt that focuses on the visual aspects of
common sense. Such new attempts highlight the
breadth of commonsense phenomena, and make it
evident that research on common sense has only
scratched the surface. Thus, there is need for
datasets and models that will further our under-
standing of what is captured by current NLU mod-
els, and what are the main lacunae.

In this work, we present COMMONSENSEQA,
a new dataset focusing on commonsense ques-
tion answering, based on knowledge encoded in
CONCEPTNET (Speer et al., 2017). We propose a
method for generating commonsense questions at
scale by asking crowd workers to author questions
that describe the relation between concepts from
CONCEPTNET (Figure 1). A crowd worker ob-
serves a source concept (‘River’ in Figure 1) and
three target concepts (‘Waterfall’, ‘Bridge’, ‘Val-
ley’) that are all related by the same CONCEPT-
NET relation (AtLocation). The worker then