Sentence-BERT: Sentence Embeddings using Siamese BERT-Networks

Nils Reimers and Iryna Gurevych
Ubiquitous Knowledge Processing Lab (UKP-TUDA)
Department of Computer Science, Technische Universit¨at Darmstadt
www.ukp.tu-darmstadt.de

9
1
0
2

g
u
A
7
2

]
L
C
.
s
c
[

1
v
4
8
0
0
1
.
8
0
9
1
:
v
i
X
r
a

Abstract

BERT (Devlin et al., 2018) and RoBERTa (Liu
et al., 2019) has set a new state-of-the-art
performance on sentence-pair regression tasks
like semantic textual similarity (STS). How-
ever, it requires that both sentences are fed
into the network, which causes a massive com-
putational overhead: Finding the most sim-
ilar pair in a collection of 10,000 sentences
requires about 50 million inference computa-
tions (~65 hours) with BERT. The construction
of BERT makes it unsuitable for semantic sim-
ilarity search as well as for unsupervised tasks
like clustering.

In this publication, we present Sentence-BERT
(SBERT), a modiﬁcation of the pretrained
BERT network that use siamese and triplet net-
work structures to derive semantically mean-
ingful sentence embeddings that can be com-
pared using cosine-similarity. This reduces the
effort for ﬁnding the most similar pair from 65
hours with BERT / RoBERTa to about 5 sec-
onds with SBERT, while maintaining the ac-
curacy from BERT.

We evaluate SBERT and SRoBERTa on com-
mon STS tasks and transfer learning tasks,
where it outperforms other state-of-the-art
sentence embeddings methods.1

1

Introduction

In this publication, we present Sentence-BERT
(SBERT), a modiﬁcation of the BERT network us-
ing siamese and triplet networks that is able to
derive semantically meaningful sentence embed-
dings2. This enables BERT to be used for certain
new tasks, which up-to-now were not applicable
for BERT. These tasks include large-scale seman-

1Code available: https://github.com/UKPLab/

sentence-transformers

2With semantically meaningful we mean that semantically

similar sentences are close in vector space.

tic similarity comparison, clustering, and informa-
tion retrieval via semantic search.

BERT set new state-of-the-art performance on
various sentence classiﬁcation and sentence-pair
regression tasks. BERT uses a cross-encoder: Two
sentences are passed to the transformer network
and the target value is predicted. However, this
setup is unsuitable for various pair regression tasks
due to too many possible combinations. Finding
in a collection of n = 10 000 sentences the pair
with the highest similarity requires with BERT
n·(n−1)/2 = 49 995 000 inference computations.
On a modern V100 GPU, this requires about 65
hours. Similar, ﬁnding which of the over 40 mil-
lion existent questions of Quora is the most similar
for a new question could be modeled as a pair-wise
comparison with BERT, however, answering a sin-
gle query would require over 50 hours.

A common method to address clustering and se-
mantic search is to map each sentence to a vec-
tor space such that semantically similar sentences
are close. Researchers have started to input indi-
vidual sentences into BERT and to derive ﬁxed-
size sentence embeddings. The most commonly
used approach is to average the BERT output layer
(known as BERT embeddings) or by using the out-
put of the ﬁrst token (the [CLS] token). As we
will show, this common practice yields rather bad
sentence embeddings, often worse than averaging
GloVe embeddings (Pennington et al., 2014).

To alleviate this issue, we developed SBERT.
The siamese network architecture enables that
ﬁxed-sized vectors for input sentences can be de-
rived. Using a similarity measure like cosine-
similarity or Manhatten / Euclidean distance, se-
mantically similar sentences can be found. These
similarity measures can be performed extremely
efﬁcient on modern hardware, allowing SBERT
to be used for semantic similarity search as well
as for clustering. The complexity for ﬁnding the

 
 
 
 
 
 
most similar sentence pair in a collection of 10,000
sentences is reduced from 65 hours with BERT to
the computation of 10,000 sentence embeddings
(~5 seconds with SBERT) and computing cosine-
similarity (~0.01 seconds). By using optimized
index structures, ﬁnding the most similar Quora
question can be reduced from 50 hours to a few
milliseconds (Johnson et al., 2017).

We ﬁne-tune SBERT on NLI data, which cre-
ates sentence embeddings that signiﬁcantly out-
perform other state-of-the-art sentence embedding
methods like InferSent (Conneau et al., 2017) and
Universal Sentence Encoder (Cer et al., 2018). On
seven Semantic Textual Similarity (STS) tasks,
SBERT achieves an improvement of 11.7 points
compared to InferSent and 5.5 points compared to
Universal Sentence Encoder. On SentEval (Con-
neau and Kiela, 2018), an evaluation toolkit for
sentence embeddings, we achieve an improvement
of 2.1 and 2.6 points, respectively.

SBERT can be adapted to a speciﬁc task.
It
sets new state-of-the-art performance on a chal-
lenging argument similarity dataset (Misra et al.,
2016) and on a