Crossmodal-3600: A Massively Multilingual
Multimodal Evaluation Dataset

Ashish V. Thapliyal, Jordi Pont-Tuset, Xi Chen, Radu Soricut
Google Research
{asht,jponttuset,chillxichen,rsoricut}@google.com

2
2
0
2

t
c
O
0
1

]

V
C
.
s
c
[

2
v
2
2
5
2
1
.
5
0
2
2
:
v
i
X
r
a

Abstract

Research in massively multilingual image cap-
tioning has been severely hampered by a lack
of high-quality evaluation datasets. In this pa-
per we present the Crossmodal-3600 dataset
(XM3600 in short), a geographically-diverse
set of 3600 images annotated with human-
generated reference captions in 36 languages.
The images were selected from across the
world, covering regions where the 36 lan-
guages are spoken, and annotated with cap-
tions that achieve consistency in terms of style
across all languages, while avoiding annota-
tion artifacts due to direct translation. We
apply this benchmark to model selection for
massively multilingual image captioning mod-
els, and show strong correlation results with
human evaluations when using XM3600 as
golden references for automatic metrics.

1

Introduction

Image captioning is the task of automatically gen-
erating a ﬂuent natural language description for a
given image. This task is important for enabling ac-
cessibility for visually impaired users, and is a core
task in multimodal research encompassing both vi-
sion and language modeling. However, datasets for
this task are primarily available in English (Young
et al., 2014; Chen et al., 2015; Krishna et al., 2017;
Sharma et al., 2018; Pont-Tuset et al., 2020). Be-
yond English, there are a few datasets such as
Multi30K with captions in German (Elliott et al.,
2016), French (Elliott et al., 2017) and Czech (Bar-
rault et al., 2018), but they are limited to only a
few languages that cover a small fraction of the
world’s population, while featuring images that
severely under-represent the richness and diversity
of cultures from across the globe. These aspects
have hindered research on image captioning for a
wide variety of languages, and directly hamper de-
ploying accessibility solutions for a large potential
audience around the world.

Creating large training and evaluation datasets in
multiple languages is a resource-intensive endeavor.
Recent works (Thapliyal and Soricut, 2020) have
shown that it is feasible to build multilingual image
captioning models trained on machine-translated
data (with English captions as the starting point).
This work also shows that the effectiveness of some
of the most reliable automatic metrics for image
captioning, such as CIDEr1 (Vedantam et al., 2015)
is severely diminished when applied to translated
evaluation sets, resulting in poorer agreement with
human evaluations compared to the English case.
As such, the current situation is that trustworthy
model evaluation can only be based on extensive
and expensive human evaluations. However, such
evaluations cannot usually be replicated across dif-
ferent research efforts, and therefore do not offer a
fast and robust mechanism for model hill-climbing
and comparison of multiple lines of research.

The proposed XM3600 image captioning evalua-
tion dataset provides a robust benchmark for multi-
lingual image captioning, and can be reliably used
to compare research contributions in this emerg-
ing ﬁeld. Our contributions are as follows: (i)
for human caption annotations, we have devised a
protocol that allows annotators for a speciﬁc tar-
get language to produce image captions in a style
that is consistent across languages; this protocol
results in image-caption annotations that are free
of direct translation artefacts, an issue that has
plagued Machine Translation research for many
years and is now well understood (Freitag et al.,
2020); (ii) for image selection, we have devised
an algorithmic approach to sample a set of 3600
geographically-diverse images from the Open Im-
ages Dataset (Kuznetsova et al., 2020), aimed at
creating a representative set of images from across
the world; (iii) for the resulting XM3600 bench-

1"measures the similarity of a generated sentence against
a set of ground truth sentences written by humans." quoted
from (Vedantam et al., 2015).

 
 
 
 
 
 
Source: Porsche Museum, Stuttgart by Brian Solis.

Figure 1: Sample captions in three different languages (out of 36 – see full list of captions in Appendix A),
showcasing the creation of annotations that are consistent in style across languages, while being free of direct-
translation artefacts (e.g. the Spanish “number 42” or the Thai “convertibles” would not be possible when directly
translating from the English versions).

mark, we empirically measure its ability to rank
image captioning model variations, and show that
it provides high levels of agreement with human
judgements, therefore validating its usefulness as
a benchmark and alleviating the need for human
judgement in the future.

Fig. 1 shows a few sample captions for an image
in XM3600 that exemplify point (i) above, and 