2
2
0
2

n
u
J

3
2

]

G
L
.
s
c
[

2
v
5
3
1
4
1
.
5
0
2
2
:
v
i
X
r
a

FlashAttention: Fast and Memory-Eﬃcient Exact Attention
with IO-Awareness

Tri Dao†, Daniel Y. Fu†, Stefano Ermon†, Atri Rudra‡, and Christopher Ré†

†Department of Computer Science, Stanford University
‡Department of Computer Science and Engineering, University at Buﬀalo, SUNY
{trid,danfu}@cs.stanford.edu, ermon@stanford.edu, atri@buffalo.edu,
chrismre@cs.stanford.edu

June 24, 2022

Abstract

Transformers are slow and memory-hungry on long sequences, since the time and memory complexity
of self-attention are quadratic in sequence length. Approximate attention methods have attempted
to address this problem by trading oﬀ model quality to reduce the compute complexity, but often do
not achieve wall-clock speedup. We argue that a missing principle is making attention algorithms IO-
aware—accounting for reads and writes between levels of GPU memory. We propose FlashAttention,
an IO-aware exact attention algorithm that uses tiling to reduce the number of memory reads/writes
between GPU high bandwidth memory (HBM) and GPU on-chip SRAM. We analyze the IO complexity
of FlashAttention, showing that it requires fewer HBM accesses than standard attention, and is
optimal for a range of SRAM sizes. We also extend FlashAttention to block-sparse attention, yielding
an approximate attention algorithm that is faster than any existing approximate attention method.
FlashAttention trains Transformers faster than existing baselines: 15% end-to-end wall-clock speedup
on BERT-large (seq. length 512) compared to the MLPerf 1.1 training speed record, 3× speedup on
GPT-2 (seq. length 1K), and 2.4× speedup on long-range arena (seq. length 1K-4K). FlashAttention
and block-sparse FlashAttention enable longer context in Transformers, yielding higher quality models
(0.7 better perplexity on GPT-2 and 6.4 points of lift on long-document classiﬁcation) and entirely new
capabilities: the ﬁrst Transformers to achieve better-than-chance performance on the Path-X challenge
(seq. length 16K, 61.4% accuracy) and Path-256 (seq. length 64K, 63.1% accuracy).

1

Introduction

Transformer models [82] have emerged as the most widely used architecture in applications such as natural
language processing and image classiﬁcation. Transformers have grown larger [5] and deeper [83], but
equipping them with longer context remains diﬃcult [80], since the self-attention module at their heart
has time and memory complexity quadratic in sequence length. An important question is whether making
attention faster and more memory-eﬃcient can help Transformer models address their runtime and memory
challenges for long sequences.

Many approximate attention methods have aimed to reduce the compute and memory requirements of
attention. These methods range from sparse-approximation [51, 74] to low-rank approximation [12, 50, 84],
and their combinations [3, 9, 92]. Although these methods reduce the compute requirements to linear or
near-linear in sequence length, many of them do not display wall-clock speedup against standard attention
and have not gained wide adoption. One main reason is that they focus on FLOP reduction (which may not
correlate with wall-clock speed) and tend to ignore overheads from memory access (IO).

In this paper, we argue that a missing principle is making attention algorithms IO-aware [1]—that is,
carefully accounting for reads and writes to diﬀerent levels of fast and slow memory (e.g., between fast GPU
on-chip SRAM and relatively slow GPU high bandwidth memory, or HBM [45], Figure 1 left). On modern

1

 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 1: Left: FlashAttention uses tiling to prevent materialization of the large 𝑁 × 𝑁 attention matrix
(dotted box) on (relatively) slow GPU HBM. In the outer loop (red arrows), FlashAttention loops through
blocks of the K and V matrices and loads them to fast on-chip SRAM. In each block, FlashAttention
loops over blocks of Q matrix (blue arrows), loading them to SRAM, and writing the output of the attention
computation back to HBM. Right: Speedup over the PyTorch implementation of attention on GPT-2.
FlashAttention does not read and write the large 𝑁 × 𝑁 attention matrix to HBM, resulting in an 7.6×
speedup on the attention computation.

GPUs, compute speed has out-paced memory speed [61, 62, 63], and most operations in Transformers are
bottlenecked by memory accesses [43]. IO-aware algorithms have been critical for similar memory-bound
operations, when reading and writing data can account for a large portion of the runtime—such as database
joins [71], image processing [70], numerical linear algebra [4], and more [40, 85]. However, common Python
interfaces to deep learning such as PyTorch and Tensorﬂow do not allow ﬁne-grained control of memory
access.

We propose FlashAttention, a new attention algorithm that computes exact attention with far fewer
memory accesses. Our main goal is to avoid reading and writing the attention matrix to and from HBM.
This 