1
2
0
2

n
a
J

7
2

]
L
C
.
s
c
[

1
v
8
1
7
1
1
.
1
0
1
2
:
v
i
X
r
a

BOLD: Dataset and Metrics for Measuring Biases in
Open-Ended Language Generation

Jwala Dhamala∗
Amazon Alexa AI-NU
USA

Satyapriya Krishna
Amazon Alexa AI-NU
USA

Tony Sun∗
UC Santa Barbara
USA

Yada Pruksachatkun
Amazon Alexa AI-NU
USA

Rahul Gupta
Amazon Alexa AI-NU
USA

Varun Kumar
Amazon Alexa AI-NU
USA

Kai-Wei Chang
Amazon Alexa AI-NU, UCLA
USA

ABSTRACT
Recent advances in deep learning techniques have enabled ma-
chines to generate cohesive open-ended text when prompted with
a sequence of words as context. While these models now empower
many downstream applications from conversation bots to auto-
matic storytelling, they have been shown to generate texts that
exhibit social biases. To systematically study and benchmark social
biases in open-ended language generation, we introduce the Bias
in Open-Ended Language Generation Dataset (BOLD), a large-scale
dataset that consists of 23,679 English text generation prompts for
bias benchmarking across five domains: profession, gender, race,
religion, and political ideology. We also propose new automated
metrics for toxicity, psycholinguistic norms, and text gender po-
larity to measure social biases in open-ended text generation from
multiple angles. An examination of text generated from three pop-
ular language models reveals that the majority of these models
exhibit a larger social bias than human-written Wikipedia text
across all domains. With these results we highlight the need to
benchmark biases in open-ended language generation and caution
users of language generation models on downstream tasks to be
cognizant of these embedded prejudices.

CCS CONCEPTS
• Computing methodologies → Natural language generation.

KEYWORDS
Fairness, natural language generation

∗equal contribution

Permission to make digital or hard copies of all or part of this work for personal or
classroom use is granted without fee provided that copies are not made or distributed
for profit or commercial advantage and that copies bear this notice and the full citation
on the first page. Copyrights for components of this work owned by others than the
author(s) must be honored. Abstracting with credit is permitted. To copy otherwise, or
republish, to post on servers or to redistribute to lists, requires prior specific permission
and/or a fee. Request permissions from permissions@acm.org.
FAccT ’21, March 3–10, 2021, Virtual Event, Canada
© 2021 Copyright held by the owner/author(s). Publication rights licensed to ACM.
ACM ISBN 978-1-4503-8309-7/21/03. . . $15.00
https://doi.org/10.1145/3442188.3445924

ACM Reference Format:
Jwala Dhamala, Tony Sun, Varun Kumar, Satyapriya Krishna, Yada Pruk-
sachatkun, Kai-Wei Chang, and Rahul Gupta. 2021. BOLD: Dataset and
Metrics for Measuring Biases in Open-Ended Language Generation. In ACM
Conference on Fairness, Accountability, and Transparency (FAccT ’21), March
3–10, 2021, Virtual Event, Canada. ACM, New York, NY, USA, 16 pages.
https://doi.org/10.1145/3442188.3445924

1 INTRODUCTION
Natural language generation models are the central building blocks
for many important artificial intelligence applications, including
machine translation [17], text summarization [44], automatic sto-
rytelling [43], conversation bots [20], and writing assistants [39].
Given some input words representing the context as the prompt
or trigger, these models generate the most probable sequence of
words in an auto-regressive manner.

Recently, there has been growing evidence on how machine
learning models without proper fairness checks risk reinforcing
undesirable stereotypes, subjecting users to disparate treatment
and enforcing de facto segregation [1, 23]. Although numerous stud-
ies have been done to quantify biases in various Natural language
processing (NLP) tasks such as coreference resolution and word
embeddings [2, 7, 29, 30], there has been limited work addressing
biases in open-ended natural language generation. There are differ-
ent ways in which biases can manifest themselves in open-ended
language generation. Broadly, one can say a language generation
model is biased if it disproportionately generates text that is often
perceived as being negative, unfair, prejudiced, or stereotypical
against an idea or a group of people with common attributes. More
precisely, Fig. 1 shows an example of a negative text generated with
the prompt “On February 4, 2009, Debbie Allen was”. The original
Wikipedia text from which the prompt was extracted is a positive
sentence. If this behaviour of generating negative text is more fre-
quent for people belonging to a specific social group (e.g., women,
African Americans, etc) or an ideology (e.g., Islam, etc) than others
then the language generation model is biased. Given that a large
number of state-of-the-art models on Natural Language Processing
(NLP) tasks are powered by these language generation models, it is
of critical importance to properly discover and