2
2
0
2

r
p
A
2
2

]
L
C
.
s
c
[

2
v
9
0
4
2
1
.
8
0
1
2
:
v
i
X
r
a

Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2022

TRAIN SHORT, TEST LONG: ATTENTION WITH LINEAR
BIASES ENABLES INPUT LENGTH EXTRAPOLATION

Oﬁr Press1,2 Noah A. Smith1,3 Mike Lewis2

1Paul G. Allen School of Computer Science & Engineering, University of Washington
2Facebook AI Research
3Allen Institute for AI
ofirp@cs.washington.edu

ABSTRACT

Since the introduction of the transformer model by Vaswani et al. (2017), a funda-
mental question has yet to be answered: how does a model achieve extrapolation
at inference time for sequences that are longer than it saw during training? We ﬁrst
show that extrapolation can be enabled by simply changing the position represen-
tation method, though we ﬁnd that current methods do not allow for efﬁcient ex-
trapolation. We therefore introduce a simpler and more efﬁcient position method,
Attention with Linear Biases (ALiBi). ALiBi does not add positional embeddings
to word embeddings; instead, it biases query-key attention scores with a penalty
that is proportional to their distance. We show that this method trains a 1.3 bil-
lion parameter model on input sequences of length 1024 that extrapolates to input
sequences of length 2048, achieving the same perplexity as a sinusoidal position
embedding model trained on inputs of length 2048 but training 11% faster and
using 11% less memory. ALiBi’s inductive bias towards recency also leads it to
outperform multiple strong position methods on the WikiText-103 benchmark.1

1

INTRODUCTION

When constructing a transformer-based language model, a major design decision is the length of
training sequences, denoted L herein, which has to date been equivalent to the length of inference
sequences. More context, achieved by larger L, improves predictions at inference time. But longer
sequences are more expensive to train on.2

Before transformers, RNN language models were trained on shorter-L sequences and assumed to
generalize to longer contexts at inference time (Mikolov et al., 2010; Mikolov & Zweig, 2012;
Zaremba et al., 2014). Vaswani et al. (2017), introducing the transformer, speculated that it “may
[...] extrapolate to sequence lengths longer than the ones encountered during training.” We deﬁne
extrapolation as a model’s ability to continue performing well as the number of input tokens during
validation increases beyond the number of tokens on which the the model was trained. We ﬁnd
that transformer language models (LMs) that use sinusoidal position embeddings have very weak
extrapolation abilities; see Figure 1.

We demonstrate that this failure to extrapolate is caused by the position embedding method. As
shown in Figure 1, recent alternatives to the original sinusoidal position method (Su et al., 2021;
Raffel et al., 2020) have improved extrapolation. However, the better of these, the T5 bias, is con-
siderably slower than the sinusoidal approach and uses extra memory and parameters (Figure 2).

We therefore introduce Attention with Linear Biases (ALiBi) to facilitate efﬁcient extrapolation.
ALiBi negatively biases attention scores with a linearly decreasing penalty proportional to the dis-
tance between the relevant key and query. Our simple approach eliminates position embeddings.

1Code & models: https://github.com/ofirpress/attention_with_linear_biases
2Figure 7 in the appendix plots training speed, in words per second, against L.

1

 
 
 
 
 
 
Published as a conference paper at ICLR 2022

Figure 1: Extrapolation: as the (validation-set’s) input sequence gets longer (x-axis), current po-
sition methods (sinusoidal, rotary, and T5) show degraded perplexity (y-axis, lower is better), but
our method (§3) does not. Models were trained on WikiText-103 with sequences of L = 512 (left)
or L = 1,024 (right) tokens. T5 ran out of memory on our 32GB GPU. For more detail on exact
perplexities and runtimes, see Tables 2 and 3 in the appendix.

Compared to a sinusoidal model trained on t