Preprint.

PALI-3 VISION LANGUAGE MODELS:
SMALLER, FASTER, STRONGER

1 Xiao Wang⋆

2 Lucas Beyer⋆

Xi Chen⋆
Paul Voigtlaender1 Basil Mustafa2
Piotr Padlewski2 Daniel Salz1 Xi Xiong3 Daniel Vlasic3
Keran Rong2 Tianli Yu3 Daniel Keysers2 Xiaohua Zhai⋆†
2
1Google Research 2Google DeepMind

2 Alexander Kolesnikov2
Sebastian Goodman1

3Google Cloud

Jialin Wu1

Ibrahim Alabdulmohsin2

Filip Pavetic2

Radu Soricut†
1

3
2
0
2

t
c
O
7
1

]

V
C
.
s
c
[

2
v
9
9
1
9
0
.
0
1
3
2
:
v
i
X
r
a

ABSTRACT

This paper presents PaLI-3, a smaller, faster, and stronger vision language model
(VLM) that compares favorably to similar models that are 10x larger. As part of
arriving at this strong performance, we compare Vision Transformer (ViT) mod-
els pretrained using classification objectives to contrastively (SigLIP) pretrained
ones. We find that, while slightly underperforming on standard image classifica-
tion benchmarks, SigLIP-based PaLI shows superior performance across various
multimodal benchmarks, especially on localization and visually-situated text un-
derstanding. We scale the SigLIP image encoder up to 2 billion parameters, and
achieves a new state-of-the-art on multilingual cross-modal retrieval. We hope
that PaLI-3, at only 5B parameters, rekindles research on fundamental pieces of
complex VLMs, and could fuel a new generation of scaled-up models.

1

INTRODUCTION

The scaling of vision-language models (VLM) to tens and even hundreds of billions of parame-
ters (Chen et al., 2023b; Alayrac et al., 2022; Chen et al., 2023a; Driess et al., 2023) has shown
ever-increasing performance. Meanwhile, models at a smaller scale remain critical, as they are more
practical to train and serve, more environmentally-friendly, and support faster research cycles for
model design.

In the spirit of focusing on smaller-scale modeling, we present PaLI-3, the third-generation family
of PaLI (Chen et al., 2023b) models. Using a pretrained backbone with only 5B total parameters,
we refine the training recipe and achieve competitive and new state-of-the-art (SOTA) results on
various VLM benchmarks. Our new recipe has three main components: contrastive pretraining of
image encoder on web-scale image-text data (Zhai et al., 2023), an improved dataset mixture for
PaLI multimodal training, and training at higher resolutions.

PaLI-3 achieves new SOTA results on tasks that require visually-situated text understanding and
object localization, including eight visually-situated text understanding tasks and the referring ex-
pression segmentation task on RefCOCO (Yu et al., 2016), along with strong performance on a
wide range of classical vision tasks. As part of this work, we also introduce a SOTA multilingual
contrastive vision model scaled to 2B parameters, obtained using the recently-introduced SigLIP
recipe (Zhai et al., 2023). Additionally, we perform focused ablation studies to compare the classifi-
cation pretrained Vision Transformer (ViT) backbones (Dosovitskiy et al., 2021) with contrastively
pretrained ones (SigLIP). This further confirms the viability of pretraining visual encoders on noisy
web-scale image-text data, as a preferable alternative to training on classification-style data.

Our contributions are summarized as follows:

⋆Core contributors, †Project leads

1

 
 
 
 
 
 
Preprint.

1. We compare classification pretrained ViT models (Dosovitskiy et al., 2021) to contrastively
pretrained SigLIP models using the PaLI framework (Chen et al., 2023b). We find that the
contrastively pretrained models work significantly better for visually-situated text under-
standing tasks and localization tasks.

2. Our model achieves SOTA performance on 10+ diverse vision-language benchmarks while
being 10x smaller in size compared to the current SOTA model Chen et al. (2023a). For
understanding visually-situated text, the improvement is by a particularly large margin.
3. Despite not pretraining on any video data, our model achieves new SOTA on several video