6
1
0
2
c
e
D
2
1

]
L
C
.
s
c
[

1
v
1
5
6
3
0
.
2
1
6
1
:
v
i
X
r
a

Under review as a conference paper at ICLR 2017

FASTTEXT.ZIP:
COMPRESSING TEXT CLASSIFICATION MODELS

Armand Joulin, Edouard Grave, Piotr Bojanowski, Matthijs Douze, Herv´e J´egou & Tomas Mikolov
Facebook AI Research
{ajoulin,egrave,bojanowski,matthijs,rvj,tmikolov}@fb.com

ABSTRACT

We consider the problem of producing compact architectures for text classiﬁca-
tion, such that the full model ﬁts in a limited amount of memory. After considering
different solutions inspired by the hashing literature, we propose a method built
upon product quantization to store word embeddings. While the original tech-
nique leads to a loss in accuracy, we adapt this method to circumvent quantization
artefacts. Our experiments carried out on several benchmarks show that our ap-
proach typically requires two orders of magnitude less memory than fastText
while being only slightly inferior with respect to accuracy. As a result, it outper-
forms the state of the art by a good margin in terms of the compromise between
memory usage and accuracy.

1

INTRODUCTION

Text classiﬁcation is an important problem in Natural Language Processing (NLP). Real world use-
cases include spam ﬁltering or e-mail categorization. It is a core component in more complex sys-
tems such as search and ranking. Recently, deep learning techniques based on neural networks
have achieved state of the art results in various NLP applications. One of the main successes of deep
learning is due to the effectiveness of recurrent networks for language modeling and their application
to speech recognition and machine translation (Mikolov, 2012). However, in other cases including
several text classiﬁcation problems, it has been shown that deep networks do not convincingly beat
the prior state of the art techniques (Wang & Manning, 2012; Joulin et al., 2016).

In spite of being (typically) orders of magnitude slower to train than traditional techniques based
on n-grams, neural networks are often regarded as a promising alternative due to compact model
sizes, in particular for character based models. This is important for applications that need to run on
systems with limited memory such as smartphones.

This paper speciﬁcally addresses the compromise between classiﬁcation accuracy and the model
size. We extend our previous work implemented in the fastText library1. It is based on n-gram
features, dimensionality reduction, and a fast approximation of the softmax classiﬁer (Joulin et al.,
2016). We show that a few key ingredients, namely feature pruning, quantization, hashing, and re-
training, allow us to produce text classiﬁcation models with tiny size, often less than 100kB when
trained on several popular datasets, without noticeably sacriﬁcing accuracy or speed.

We plan to publish the code and scripts required to reproduce our results as an extension of the
fastText library, thereby providing strong reproducible baselines for text classiﬁers that optimize
the compromise between the model size and accuracy. We hope that this will help the engineering
community to improve existing applications by using more efﬁcient models.

This paper is organized as follows. Section 2 introduces related work, Section 3 describes our text
classiﬁcation model and explains how we drastically reduce the model size. Section 4 shows the
effectiveness of our approach in experiments on multiple text classiﬁcation benchmarks.

1https://github.com/facebookresearch/fastText

1

 
 
 
 
 
 
Under review as a conference paper at ICLR 2017

2 RELATED WORK

Models for text classiﬁcation. Text classiﬁcation is a problem that has its roots in many applica-
tions such as web search, information retrieval and document classiﬁcation (Deerwester et al., 1990;
Pang & Lee, 2008). Linear classiﬁers often obtain state-of-the-art performance while being scal-
able (Agarwal et al., 2014; Joachims, 1998; Joulin et al., 2016; McCallum & Nigam, 1998). They
are par