BBQ: A Hand-Built Bias Benchmark for Question Answering

Alicia Parrish,1 Angelica Chen,2 Nikita Nangia,2 Vishakh Padmakumar,2
Jason Phang,2 Jana Thompson,2 Phu Mon Htut,2 Samuel R. Bowman1,2,3

1New York University
Dept. of Linguistics

2New York University
Center for Data Science

3New York University
Dept. of Computer Science

Correspondence: {alicia.v.parrish, bowman}@nyu.edu

Abstract

It is well documented that NLP models learn
social biases, but little work has been done
on how these biases manifest in model out-
puts for applied tasks like question answer-
ing (QA). We introduce the Bias Benchmark
for QA (BBQ), a dataset of question sets con-
structed by the authors that highlight attested
social biases against people belonging to pro-
tected classes along nine social dimensions rel-
evant for U.S. English-speaking contexts. Our
task evaluates model responses at two levels:
(i) given an under-informative context, we test
how strongly responses reﬂect social biases,
and (ii) given an adequately informative con-
text, we test whether the model’s biases over-
ride a correct answer choice. We ﬁnd that mod-
els often rely on stereotypes when the context
is under-informative, meaning the model’s out-
puts consistently reproduce harmful biases in
this setting. Though models are more accurate
when the context provides an informative an-
swer, they still rely on stereotypes and average
up to 3.4 percentage points higher accuracy
when the correct answer aligns with a social
bias than when it conﬂicts, with this difference
widening to over 5 points on examples target-
ing gender for most models tested.

Figure 1: Examples in BBQ come in sets of 4, created
by varying the two contexts options in (A), ambiguous
context only or ambiguous + disambiguated context,
with the two question types in (B), negative question or
non-negative question. We then repeat this with “Chris-
tian” and “Muslim” switched. The correct answers for
this set are shown in (C). Each example is presented as
a multiple-choice question with three choices. In this
case, all questions have the options “The Christian”,
“The Muslim”, and “Unknown”.

1

